content/en/resources/hosted/has-anyone-cited-a-woman/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Has Anyone Cited A Woman?
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-10-25
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - wyatt-sally
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - feminism
  - digital-source-criticism
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Has Anyone Cited A Woman?
  content: Women have long been under-represented in science, but their output
    appears to be often under-represented in citations. In this talk, presented
    as part of the DAIRAH Friday Frontiers webinar series, Sally Wyatt
    (Maastricht University) addresses how to achieve citational justice.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1992-701d-977b-570ab55e14c2
---
For many researchers, citation is an important way of demonstrating our knowledge, acknowledging the sources of our ideas, and connecting with debates in our fields. Recent studies have highlighted the systematic under-citation of women and other marginalised groups in various fields.

In this talk, Sally discusses recent activities undertaken at Maastricht University to help students and colleagues develop tactics to address this problem.

This webinar was presented on Friday 7th October as part of DARIAH's "Friday Frontiers' webinar series.

## L﻿earning Outcomes

A﻿fter viewing this video, learners will:

* recognise the conscious and unconscious biases that can lead to under-citation of knowledge
* u﻿nderstand how such under-citation of knowledge across genders can foster and reinforce systematic inequality
* k﻿now what steps we can all take to address these inequalities and apply them to other instances of under-citation and inequality such as ethnicity and language.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="hXkFMeYyRGk" title="Has Anyone Cited A Woman?" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/has-anyone-cited-a-woman/sally-wyatt-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/has-anyone-cited-a-woman/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Has Anyone Cited A Woman?
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-10-25
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - wyatt-sally
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - feminism
  - digital-source-criticism
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Has Anyone Cited A Woman?
  content: >-
    Women have long been under-represented in science, but their output appears
    to be often under-represented in citations. In this talk, presented as part
    of the DAIRAH Friday Frontiers webinar series, Sally Wyatt (Maastricht
    University) addresses how to achieve citational justice.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1992-701d-977b-570ab55e14c2
---
For many researchers, citation is an important way of demonstrating our knowledge, acknowledging the sources of our ideas, and connecting with debates in our fields. Recent studies have highlighted the systematic under-citation of women and other marginalised groups in various fields.

In this talk, Sally discusses recent activities undertaken at Maastricht University to help students and colleagues develop tactics to address this problem.

This webinar was presented on Friday 7th October as part of DARIAH's "Friday Frontiers' webinar series.

## L﻿earning Outcomes

A﻿fter viewing this video, learners will:

* recognise the conscious and unconscious biases that can lead to under-citation of knowledge
* u﻿nderstand how such under-citation of knowledge across genders can foster and reinforce systematic inequality
* k﻿now what steps we can all take to address these inequalities and apply them to other instances of under-citation and inequality such as ethnicity and language.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="hXkFMeYyRGk" title="Has Anyone Cited A Woman?" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/has-anyone-cited-a-woman/sally-wyatt-thumbnail.png" />
