content/events/digging-for-gold-knowledge-extraction-from-text/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Digging for Gold - Knowledge Extraction from Text
shortTitle: Digging for Gold - Knowledge Extraction from Text
eventType: Summer School
lang: en
date: 2023-007-04T13:28:57.352Z
tags:
  - editing-tools
  - data-visualisation
  - scholarly-publishing
categories:
  - events
abstract: NEED TEXT HERE
authors:
  - dejaeghere-tess
  - remon-guillermo-marco
  - pérez-alvaro
  - šeļa-artjoms
  - eder-maciej
  - fradejas-rueda-josé-manuel
  - benito-santos-alejandro
  - janssen-maarten
  - garnett-vicky
  - ros-salvador
about: >-
  ## About the Local Host - UNED

  UNED is a distance-university and the largest learning university in Spain in terms of the number
  of students enrolled. The National University of Distance Education has as its mission the public
  service of higher education through the modality of distance education. To respond to this
  mission, it facilitates access to university education and the continuity of their studies for all
  people qualified to pursue higher studies who choose the UNED educational system for its
  methodology or for work, economic, residence or any other.

  The UNED is the public university with the largest number of students in the country, more than
  250,000. That it has more than 40 years of experience making the principle of equal opportunities
  in access to higher education a reality thanks to a methodology based on the principles of
  distance learning, and focused on the needs of the student. Leader in the application of
  cutting-edge technologies applied to learning, with the largest offer of virtual courses in the
  country. It has a very wide training offer:

    -	27 degrees adapted to the European Higher Education Area (EHEA)
    -	65 official university Master's degrees adapted to the EHEA.
    -	18 PhD programmes adapted to the EHEA.
    -	4 diplomas and 5 technical engineering (all in extinction).
    -	18 degrees and 3 engineering (all in extinction).
    -	University Access Courses for over 25s and over 45s (CAD).
    -	University Access Tests for over 25s and over 45s (CAD).
    -	Access to the University by professional or work experience (for people over 40 years of age)
    -	13 languages are offered at the Distance Learning University Centre (CUID) – foreign languages,
  Spanish for foreigners and co-official languages.
    -	Permanent Training (more than 600 courses).
    -	University extension courses (more than 350 courses).
    -	Summer courses (more than 140 courses).

  UNED Senior is designed for people over 55 years of age, regardless of their academic training,
  with the aim of expanding knowledge on current issues.

  UNED Open is a new channel created to facilitate the search for open educational content from
  UNED.

  With more than 1,400 professors, in 9 Faculties, 2 Technical Schools and CAD at the Headquarters,
  and more than 6,500 tutor professors, distributed in the Associated Centres.

  Implemented in all the Autonomous Communities through 61 Associated Centres, more than 100
  extensions and classrooms, and 28 zone centres in the Community of Madrid where tutorials are
  given and face-to-face tests prepared by the teaching teams are carried out.

  UNED has a presence in 11 countries in Europe, America and Africa through 12 UNED Centres abroad
  and 4 concerted centres for exams. Especially concerned with responding to the demands for
  training of groups with special needs (people with disabilities, immigrants, reintegration of the
  prison population).
prep: >-
  ## Session 1 Python
  To get the most out of this session you will need to have a few things downloaded to your machine.

  ### Anaconda

  Installing: Local installation of Anaconda (Jupyter Notebook)
  [https://www.anaconda.com/](https://www.anaconda.com/) (download)

  ## Google Collaborate

  You will use Google Collaborate to access files on your browser
  [https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb?hl=en](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb?hl=en)

  You will download files from this GitHub repository:
  [https://github.com/sros-UNED/NLPforHumanist](https://github.com/sros-UNED/NLPforHumanist) download them through this link (code —> download zip)



  ## Session 5-8 Preparation Notes

  The most important technical requirement for Day 2 would be [installing
  R](https://cloud.r-project.org/) and (preferably)
  [RStudio](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/) (development environment for R that will
  make things easier). We will use the `stylo` library for most of the day; see [step-by-step
  introduction](https://computationalstylistics.github.io/stylo_nutshell/#) to stylo for beginners,
  or the more extensive [HOW
  TO](https://github.com/computationalstylistics/stylo_howto/blob/master/stylo_howto.pdf).

  In case you don’t / can’t install R and `stylo` locally, there will be an option to run analysis
  from Colaboratory notebooks, just be aware it will require _more_ coding, not less coding, because
  of the stylo’s interface that doesn’t work in Colab.  You are free to bring your own collection of
  texts to the workshop, but you can find more ready to use plain text fiction collections in
  various languages on the [Computational Stylistics
  website](https://computationalstylistics.github.io/resources/).

  ## Materials

  We will use GDrive folder
  ([https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1V8KFkDxGpKvYqjbkymqukH1QdjwTJeak?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1V8KFkDxGpKvYqjbkymqukH1QdjwTJeak?usp=sharing))
  holds all necessary materials.

  Your options are:-

    - Download it and work locally.
    - Download -> re-upload folder to work in Colabs’ virtual machine with R (or just open the
  .ipynb notebook, then File -> Save a copy in Drive. It will create a copy of the notebook on your
  own Drive.)


  To copy folder to your own GDrive, do this:-

    - Download CLS_Madrid_Folder
    - Extract the downloaded .zip
    - Upload the extracted folder back to your GDrive

type: event
licence: ccby-4.0
uuid: I4_lTVMwwnwrgykI-dbUF
sessions:
  - title: "Digging for Gold I: Introduction to Python"
    speakers:
      - dejaeghere-tess
      - ros-salvador
    body: >-
      This lesson provides an introduction to variables, operators, loops, lists, and dictionaries.
      Students will learn how to use lists and dictionaries to manipulate data in their programs. By
      the end of the lesson, students will have a foundational understanding of Python's core
      concepts.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="dejaeghere-tess">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="pérez-alvaro">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Digging for Gold II: Extracting useful information from a corpus pt1 - Cleaning"
    speakers:
      - remon-guillermo-marco
      - ros-salvador
      - pérez-alvaro
    body: >-
      In this lesson, students will learn how to use the Natural Language Toolkit (nltk) to download a corpus and then use Python and regular expressions to clean the text data. Students will learn how to remove unwanted characters and symbols, tokenise the text into individual words, and how to remove stop words.

      This lesson will equip students with the skills to clean and preprocess text data for further analysis and natural language processing tasks.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="remon-guillermo-marco">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="pérez-alvaro">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Digging for Gold III: Extracting useful information from a corpus pt2"
    speakers:
      - pérez-alvaro
      - ros-salvador
    body: >-
      In this lesson, students will use the natural language processing library, spaCy, to extract all the "scary" verbs from a corpus of horror books. They will then use the similarity function in spaCy to determine which verbs are most closely related to the concept of fear. Additionally, they will determine which book is the "scariest" by calculating the ratio of scary verbs to total words in each book. This exercise will provide students with an understanding of how natural language processing can be used to analyse and compare different works of literature based on a specific set of criteria.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="pérez-alvaro">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Digging for Gold IV: Word Embeddings"
    speakers:
      - ros-salvador
    body: >-
      Embedding spaces and computational literary studies have emerged as a fruitful convergence of computer science and literary analysis. This presentation introduces the concept of embedding spaces, which represent textual data as high-dimensional vectors, capturing semantic relationships and contextual information. Specifically, word embeddings enable tasks such as sentiment analysis and authorship attribution, while sentence and document embeddings facilitate analysis at larger text units. By leveraging computational methods, researchers can delve into the complexities of literature, offering quantitative insights and novel research avenues. This interdisciplinary approach holds great promise for revolutionising the study of literature and deepening our understanding of its intricacies.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold I: Stylometry - Distances and differences"
    speakers:
      - šeļa-artjoms
    body: >-
      This is an introductory overview of the field of stylometry and multivariate text analysis. We discuss classic approaches to text representation, such as bag of words, and show the ability of word frequencies to reflect meaningful cultural and social conditions of texts: genre, chronology and authorship.

      ## R and RStudio

      The most important thing to do would be installing R and RStudio on your machine. We will use the stylo library for most of the day; if you want, you can look at step-by-step introduction to stylo for beginners, or at the more extensive HOW TO, but we will cover all the basics.

      NB. In case you don’t / can’t install R and stylo locally, there will be an option to run analysis from Colab, just be aware it will require more coding, not less coding, because of the stylo’s interface that doesn’t work in Colab.

      You are free to bring your own collection of texts to the workshop, but you also can find plain text fiction collections in various languages on the Computational Stylistics website.

      ## Materials

      We will use GDrive folder that holds all necessary materials.

      Your options are:

        - Download it and work locally
        - Download -> re-upload folder to work in Colabs’ virtual machine with R (or just open the .ipynb notebook, then File -> Save a copy in Drive. It will create a copy of the notebook on your own Drive.)

      To copy folder to your own GDrive, do this:

        - Download CLS_Madrid_Folder
        - Extract the downloaded .zip
        - Upload the extracted folder back to your GDrive

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="šeļa-artjoms">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold II: Stylometry with R"
    speakers:
      - eder-maciej
    body: >-
      This session introduces the ‘stylo’ library for R that allows to perform different stylometric analysis on a collection of documents. We quickly introduce R language and go over a graphical user interface of ‘stylo’ to show practicalities of feature selection, distance metrics, cluster analysis and sampling.

      **N﻿ote - Download instructions for software and materials can be found in Session 5**

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="eder-maciej">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold III: Keywords and associations"
    speakers:
      - byszuk-joanna
    body: >-
      In this session, we look at the ideas of the word ‘keyness’ and the ways to understand which features differ between texts and corpora. We also show how to trace features that might underlie text groupings and clusters and detect a potential bias, or systematic error in a corpus

      **N﻿ote - Download instructions for software and materials can be found in Session 5**

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="byszuk-joanna">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold IV: Case-study - Stylometry applied to Old Spanish Poetry"
    speakers:
      - fradejas-rueda-josé-manuel
    body: >-
      In this session, we will try to find out whether the Old Spanish version of the Book of Alexander  was written by an author known as Gonzalo de Berceo, as it is stated in one manuscript, or not. We will gather the data from the Old Spanish Textual Archive (OSTA), a corpus of Old Spanish Texts lemmatised and PoS tagged. Then we will use the stylo package to find it out. Afterwards, we will try to see if the rhyming words are a good element to establish the authorship of the Book of Alexander.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="fradejas-rueda-josé-manuel">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Showing Gold I: Visualisation"
    speakers:
      - benito-santos-alejandro
    body: >-
      This session aims to introduce visualisation grammars and their applications to accelerate exploratory data analysis in digital humanities projects by allowing users to create interactive visualisations with minimal effort in a Jupyter notebook. To this end, a real application will be built by replicating the design process of a visualisation system based on machine-annotated textual data, in a similar setup to many digital humanities research projects.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="benito-santos-alejandro">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Storing Gold II: Lindat/Teitok"
    speakers:
      - janssen-maarten
    body: >-
      Corpus data should be kept FAIR: findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable. This lecture will show how to do that using an example set-up in which the LINDAT repository is used for findability (as well as long-term preservation), TEITOK for accessibility (as well as maintenance and annotation), and TEI for interoperability and reusability. And we will show how to interact with these tools and standard both via a GUI (online) and using an API (to interact programmatically).

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="janssen-maarten">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>
---

9-11th May 2023, Madrid, Spain

Commit message:

prep featured image
fixing prep and adding featured image

content/events/digging-for-gold-knowledge-extraction-from-text/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Digging for Gold - Knowledge Extraction from Text
shortTitle: Digging for Gold - Knowledge Extraction from Text
eventType: Summer School
lang: en
date: 2023-007-04T13:28:57.352Z
tags:
  - editing-tools
  - data-visualisation
  - scholarly-publishing
categories:
  - events
abstract: NEED TEXT HERE
featuredImage: images/madrid_featured_image.jpg
authors:
  - dejaeghere-tess
  - remon-guillermo-marco
  - pérez-alvaro
  - šeļa-artjoms
  - eder-maciej
  - fradejas-rueda-josé-manuel
  - benito-santos-alejandro
  - janssen-maarten
  - garnett-vicky
  - ros-salvador
about: >-
  ## About the Local Host - UNED

  UNED is a distance-university and the largest learning university in Spain in terms of the number
  of students enrolled. The National University of Distance Education has as its mission the public
  service of higher education through the modality of distance education. To respond to this
  mission, it facilitates access to university education and the continuity of their studies for all
  people qualified to pursue higher studies who choose the UNED educational system for its
  methodology or for work, economic, residence or any other.

  The UNED is the public university with the largest number of students in the country, more than
  250,000. That it has more than 40 years of experience making the principle of equal opportunities
  in access to higher education a reality thanks to a methodology based on the principles of
  distance learning, and focused on the needs of the student. Leader in the application of
  cutting-edge technologies applied to learning, with the largest offer of virtual courses in the
  country. It has a very wide training offer:

    -	27 degrees adapted to the European Higher Education Area (EHEA)
    -	65 official university Master's degrees adapted to the EHEA.
    -	18 PhD programmes adapted to the EHEA.
    -	4 diplomas and 5 technical engineering (all in extinction).
    -	18 degrees and 3 engineering (all in extinction).
    -	University Access Courses for over 25s and over 45s (CAD).
    -	University Access Tests for over 25s and over 45s (CAD).
    -	Access to the University by professional or work experience (for people over 40 years of age)
    -	13 languages are offered at the Distance Learning University Centre (CUID) – foreign languages,
  Spanish for foreigners and co-official languages.
    -	Permanent Training (more than 600 courses).
    -	University extension courses (more than 350 courses).
    -	Summer courses (more than 140 courses).

  UNED Senior is designed for people over 55 years of age, regardless of their academic training,
  with the aim of expanding knowledge on current issues.

  UNED Open is a new channel created to facilitate the search for open educational content from
  UNED.

  With more than 1,400 professors, in 9 Faculties, 2 Technical Schools and CAD at the Headquarters,
  and more than 6,500 tutor professors, distributed in the Associated Centres.

  Implemented in all the Autonomous Communities through 61 Associated Centres, more than 100
  extensions and classrooms, and 28 zone centres in the Community of Madrid where tutorials are
  given and face-to-face tests prepared by the teaching teams are carried out.

  UNED has a presence in 11 countries in Europe, America and Africa through 12 UNED Centres abroad
  and 4 concerted centres for exams. Especially concerned with responding to the demands for
  training of groups with special needs (people with disabilities, immigrants, reintegration of the
  prison population).
prep: >-
  ## Session 1 Python
  To get the most out of this session you will need to have a few things downloaded to your machine.

  **Anaconda**
  Installing: Local installation of Anaconda (Jupyter Notebook)
  [https://www.anaconda.com/](https://www.anaconda.com/) (download)


  **Google Collaborate**
  You will use Google Collaborate to access files on your browser
  [https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb?hl=en](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb?hl=en)

  You will download files from this GitHub repository:
  [https://github.com/sros-UNED/NLPforHumanist](https://github.com/sros-UNED/NLPforHumanist) download them through this link (code —> download zip)



  ## Session 5-8 Preparation Notes

  The most important technical requirement for Day 2 would be [installing
  R](https://cloud.r-project.org/) and (preferably)
  [RStudio](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/) (development environment for R that will
  make things easier). We will use the `stylo` library for most of the day; see [step-by-step
  introduction](https://computationalstylistics.github.io/stylo_nutshell/#) to stylo for beginners,
  or the more extensive [HOW
  TO](https://github.com/computationalstylistics/stylo_howto/blob/master/stylo_howto.pdf).

  In case you don’t / can’t install R and `stylo` locally, there will be an option to run analysis
  from Colaboratory notebooks, just be aware it will require _more_ coding, not less coding, because
  of the stylo’s interface that doesn’t work in Colab.  You are free to bring your own collection of
  texts to the workshop, but you can find more ready to use plain text fiction collections in
  various languages on the [Computational Stylistics
  website](https://computationalstylistics.github.io/resources/).

  ## Materials

  We will use GDrive folder
  ([https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1V8KFkDxGpKvYqjbkymqukH1QdjwTJeak?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1V8KFkDxGpKvYqjbkymqukH1QdjwTJeak?usp=sharing))
  holds all necessary materials.

  Your options are:-

    - Download it and work locally.
    - Download -> re-upload folder to work in Colabs’ virtual machine with R (or just open the
  .ipynb notebook, then File -> Save a copy in Drive. It will create a copy of the notebook on your
  own Drive.)


  To copy folder to your own GDrive, do this:-

    - Download CLS_Madrid_Folder
    - Extract the downloaded .zip
    - Upload the extracted folder back to your GDrive

type: event
licence: ccby-4.0
uuid: I4_lTVMwwnwrgykI-dbUF
sessions:
  - title: "Digging for Gold I: Introduction to Python"
    speakers:
      - dejaeghere-tess
      - ros-salvador
    body: >-
      This lesson provides an introduction to variables, operators, loops, lists, and dictionaries.
      Students will learn how to use lists and dictionaries to manipulate data in their programs. By
      the end of the lesson, students will have a foundational understanding of Python's core
      concepts.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="dejaeghere-tess">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="pérez-alvaro">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Digging for Gold II: Extracting useful information from a corpus pt1 - Cleaning"
    speakers:
      - remon-guillermo-marco
      - ros-salvador
      - pérez-alvaro
    body: >-
      In this lesson, students will learn how to use the Natural Language Toolkit (nltk) to download a corpus and then use Python and regular expressions to clean the text data. Students will learn how to remove unwanted characters and symbols, tokenise the text into individual words, and how to remove stop words.

      This lesson will equip students with the skills to clean and preprocess text data for further analysis and natural language processing tasks.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="remon-guillermo-marco">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="pérez-alvaro">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Digging for Gold III: Extracting useful information from a corpus pt2"
    speakers:
      - pérez-alvaro
      - ros-salvador
    body: >-
      In this lesson, students will use the natural language processing library, spaCy, to extract all the "scary" verbs from a corpus of horror books. They will then use the similarity function in spaCy to determine which verbs are most closely related to the concept of fear. Additionally, they will determine which book is the "scariest" by calculating the ratio of scary verbs to total words in each book. This exercise will provide students with an understanding of how natural language processing can be used to analyse and compare different works of literature based on a specific set of criteria.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="pérez-alvaro">
        </Speaker>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Digging for Gold IV: Word Embeddings"
    speakers:
      - ros-salvador
    body: >-
      Embedding spaces and computational literary studies have emerged as a fruitful convergence of computer science and literary analysis. This presentation introduces the concept of embedding spaces, which represent textual data as high-dimensional vectors, capturing semantic relationships and contextual information. Specifically, word embeddings enable tasks such as sentiment analysis and authorship attribution, while sentence and document embeddings facilitate analysis at larger text units. By leveraging computational methods, researchers can delve into the complexities of literature, offering quantitative insights and novel research avenues. This interdisciplinary approach holds great promise for revolutionising the study of literature and deepening our understanding of its intricacies.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="ros-salvador">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold I: Stylometry - Distances and differences"
    speakers:
      - šeļa-artjoms
    body: >-
      This is an introductory overview of the field of stylometry and multivariate text analysis. We discuss classic approaches to text representation, such as bag of words, and show the ability of word frequencies to reflect meaningful cultural and social conditions of texts: genre, chronology and authorship.

      ## R and RStudio

      The most important thing to do would be installing R and RStudio on your machine. We will use the stylo library for most of the day; if you want, you can look at step-by-step introduction to stylo for beginners, or at the more extensive HOW TO, but we will cover all the basics.

      NB. In case you don’t / can’t install R and stylo locally, there will be an option to run analysis from Colab, just be aware it will require more coding, not less coding, because of the stylo’s interface that doesn’t work in Colab.

      You are free to bring your own collection of texts to the workshop, but you also can find plain text fiction collections in various languages on the Computational Stylistics website.

      ## Materials

      We will use GDrive folder that holds all necessary materials.

      Your options are:

        - Download it and work locally
        - Download -> re-upload folder to work in Colabs’ virtual machine with R (or just open the .ipynb notebook, then File -> Save a copy in Drive. It will create a copy of the notebook on your own Drive.)

      To copy folder to your own GDrive, do this:

        - Download CLS_Madrid_Folder
        - Extract the downloaded .zip
        - Upload the extracted folder back to your GDrive

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="šeļa-artjoms">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold II: Stylometry with R"
    speakers:
      - eder-maciej
    body: >-
      This session introduces the ‘stylo’ library for R that allows to perform different stylometric analysis on a collection of documents. We quickly introduce R language and go over a graphical user interface of ‘stylo’ to show practicalities of feature selection, distance metrics, cluster analysis and sampling.


      **N﻿ote - Download instructions for software and materials can be found in Session 5**

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="eder-maciej">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold III: Keywords and associations"
    speakers:
      - byszuk-joanna
    body: >-
      In this session, we look at the ideas of the word ‘keyness’ and the ways to understand which features differ between texts and corpora. We also show how to trace features that might underlie text groupings and clusters and detect a potential bias, or systematic error in a corpus.


      **N﻿ote - Download instructions for software and materials can be found in Session 5**

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="byszuk-joanna">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Finding Gold IV: Case-study - Stylometry applied to Old Spanish Poetry"
    speakers:
      - fradejas-rueda-josé-manuel
    body: >-
      In this session, we will try to find out whether the Old Spanish version of the Book of Alexander  was written by an author known as Gonzalo de Berceo, as it is stated in one manuscript, or not. We will gather the data from the Old Spanish Textual Archive (OSTA), a corpus of Old Spanish Texts lemmatised and PoS tagged. Then we will use the stylo package to find it out. Afterwards, we will try to see if the rhyming words are a good element to establish the authorship of the Book of Alexander.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="fradejas-rueda-josé-manuel">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Showing Gold I: Visualisation"
    speakers:
      - benito-santos-alejandro
    body: >-
      This session aims to introduce visualisation grammars and their applications to accelerate exploratory data analysis in digital humanities projects by allowing users to create interactive visualisations with minimal effort in a Jupyter notebook. To this end, a real application will be built by replicating the design process of a visualisation system based on machine-annotated textual data, in a similar setup to many digital humanities research projects.

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="benito-santos-alejandro">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Storing Gold II: Lindat/Teitok"
    speakers:
      - janssen-maarten
    body: >-
      Corpus data should be kept FAIR: findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable. This lecture will show how to do that using an example set-up in which the LINDAT repository is used for findability (as well as long-term preservation), TEITOK for accessibility (as well as maintenance and annotation), and TEI for interoperability and reusability. And we will show how to interact with these tools and standard both via a GUI (online) and using an API (to interact programmatically).

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="janssen-maarten">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>
---

9-11th May 2023, Madrid, Spain
