content/posts/chroma-key-tutorial/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Chroma Key Tutorial
lang: en
date: 2024-02-27T10:42:44.224Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - herault-romain
  - hanscam-emily
tags:
  - editing-tools
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: images/screenshot-2024-02-27-at-11.43.18.png
abstract: This tutorial provides a comprehensive guide on using chroma keying,
  or green screen effects, with the PowerDirector video editing app. The
  tutorial walks through the process of setting up the app, importing footage,
  applying the chroma keying effect, and exporting the final video. It
  highlights the potential of chroma keying as a powerful tool in the
  humanities, enabling immersive experiences in art, history, and literature.
  The tutorial emphasizes the importance of quality recording and careful
  application of the chroma keying process for optimal results.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2024-01-29T00:00:00.000Z
  url: https://play.lnu.se/media/t/0_c8n3sfbv
  publisher: LNU Play
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: 5wX2onB5pglO8nuHMHZUC
---
T﻿his video provides:

1. **Understanding of Chroma Keying**: You will learn that chroma keying, also known as green screen effects, is a technique that allows you to replace the background of your videos with just about anything.
2. **Introduction to PowerDirector**: You will be introduced to PowerDirector, a professional-grade video editing app available for both Android and iOS. This powerful tool is not just for cutting and trimming videos, but it also has an easy-to-use green screen replacement feature.
3. **Practical Application of Chroma Keying**: You will learn how to use chroma keying. This includes downloading the app, setting up your account, importing footage, selecting the color to remove using the Chroma Key effect, and exporting your footage.
4. **Implications of Chroma Keying**: You will understand the significant implications of chroma keying for the field of humanities. It can bring art, history, and literature to life by allowing students to ‘visit’ historical places or ‘meet’ characters from literature right from their living rooms.

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "chroma-key-tutorial/index"

content/posts/chroma-key-tutorial/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Chroma Key Tutorial
lang: en
date: 2024-02-27T10:42:44.224Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - herault-romain
  - hanscam-emily
tags:
  - editing-tools
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: ""
abstract: This tutorial provides a comprehensive guide on using chroma keying,
  or green screen effects, with the PowerDirector video editing app, showing
  users how to set up the app, import footage, apply the chroma key effect, and
  export the final video.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2024-01-29T00:00:00.000Z
  url: https://play.lnu.se/media/t/0_c8n3sfbv
  publisher: LNU Play
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: 5wX2onB5pglO8nuHMHZUC
---
This tutorial provides a comprehensive guide on using chroma keying, or green screen effects, with the PowerDirector video editing app. The tutorial walks through the process of setting up the app, importing footage, applying the chroma keying effect, and exporting the final video. It highlights the potential of chroma keying as a powerful tool in the humanities, enabling immersive experiences in art, history, and literature. The tutorial emphasizes the importance of quality recording and careful application of the chroma keying process for optimal results.

**Learning Outcomes**

A﻿fter using this resource, learners will:

**Have an understanding of Chroma Keying**: You will learn that chroma keying, also known as green screen effects, is a technique that allows you to replace the background of your videos with just about anything.

You will be **introduced to PowerDirector**, a professional-grade video editing app available for both Android and iOS. This powerful tool is not just for cutting and trimming videos, but it also has an easy-to-use green screen replacement feature.

 You will learn how to **practically apply chroma keying**. This includes downloading the app, setting up your account, importing footage, selecting the color to remove using the Chroma Key effect, and exporting your footage.

**Understand the implications of Chroma Keying**: You will understand the significant implications of chroma keying for the field of humanities. It can bring art, history, and literature to life by allowing students to ‘visit’ historical places or ‘meet’ characters from literature right from their living rooms.

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out &quot;Chroma Key Tutorial&quot;" url="https://play.lnu.se/media/t/0_c8n3sfbv" />
