content/en/resources/hosted/introduction-to-apis/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to APIs
locale: en
publication-date: 2021-10-12
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - hall-mark
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - software-development
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Introduction to APIs
  content: Dr. Mark Hall from Open University UK gives an introduction to
    Application Programme Interfaces (APIs) and how they can be used in
    (digital) Humanities projects.  This webinar was recorded as part of the
    DARIAH Friday Frontiers webinar series.
content-type: training-module
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1b94-77da-9f19-6a6b55507729
---
Dr. Mark Hall from Open University UK gives an introduction to Application Programme Interfaces (APIs) and how they can be used in (digital) Humanities projects.

APIs feature in many of the programs and apps we use, but from a research perspective, particularly in the digital humanities and cultural heritage, APIs can offer a way to gather large amounts of data from collections for further analysis. Many Cultural Heritage institutions provide APIs to help access their collections. but APIs can seem daunting to someone who hasn't used them before. In this webinar, Mark Hall explains what an API is, and how they can be called on to complete queries on metadata.

This webinar was recorded as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers webinar series.

## Learning Outcomes

By watching this video, learners should:

* Understand what an API is and how they are used in most software
* Understand how an API can be queried, particularly to acquire metadata for analysis

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="ifTYfDF6pUI" title="Introduction to APIs" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/introduction-to-apis/intro-to-apis-image.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/introduction-to-apis/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to APIs
locale: en
publication-date: 2021-10-12
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - hall-mark
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - software-development
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Introduction to APIs
  content: >-
    Dr. Mark Hall from Open University UK gives an introduction to Application
    Programme Interfaces (APIs) and how they can be used in (digital) Humanities
    projects.  This webinar was recorded as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers
    webinar series.
content-type: training-module
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1b94-77da-9f19-6a6b55507729
---
Dr. Mark Hall from Open University UK gives an introduction to Application Programme Interfaces (APIs) and how they can be used in (digital) Humanities projects.

APIs feature in many of the programs and apps we use, but from a research perspective, particularly in the digital humanities and cultural heritage, APIs can offer a way to gather large amounts of data from collections for further analysis. Many Cultural Heritage institutions provide APIs to help access their collections. but APIs can seem daunting to someone who hasn't used them before. In this webinar, Mark Hall explains what an API is, and how they can be called on to complete queries on metadata.

This webinar was recorded as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers webinar series.

## Learning Outcomes

By watching this video, learners should:

* Understand what an API is and how they are used in most software
* Understand how an API can be queried, particularly to acquire metadata for analysis

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="ifTYfDF6pUI" title="Introduction to APIs" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/introduction-to-apis/intro-to-apis-image.png" />
