content/posts/more-watching-less-searching-repurposing-fortunoff-archive-metadata-for-visual-searching/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "More Watching, Less Searching: Repurposing Fortunoff Archive Metadata
  for Visual Searching"
lang: en
date: 2022-11-14T15:09:49.407Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - naron-stephen
  - kara-jake
tags:
  - big-data
  - data-visualisation
  - digital-archives
  - e-heritage
  - metadata
  - repositories-and-collections
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: "The Fortunoff Video Archive For Holocaust Testimonies and the Yale
  Digital Humanities Lab (DHLab) began building a Visual Search tool in 2019 in
  order to provide a simple overview of the Fortunoff Archive’s collection and
  enable quick filtering and discovery of relevant testimonies. The Visual
  Search is a tool for both data visualisation and collection discovery. The
  default state of the tool displays the entire collection. As the user
  interactively applies filters the interface is updated to reflect only the
  resulting subset of the collection. The user interface is composed of the
  following sections, arranged in a single column layout: a prose summary, a
  visualization cluster, a subject heading pool, and a result list."
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2020-09-01T11:04:24.942Z
  url: https://blog.ehri-project.eu/2020/09/01/fortunoff-archive-metadata/
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: be5aUc62TBkd9ijpj0rFD
---
The Fortunoff Video Archive For Holocaust Testimonies and the Yale Digital Humanities Lab (DHLab) began building a [_Visual Search_ tool](https://yale-fortunoff.github.io/metadash/) in 2019 in order to provide a simple overview of the Fortunoff Archive’s collection and enable quick filtering and discovery of relevant testimonies. Uninitiated researchers approaching Fortunoff’s collection, in particular undergraduate students tasked with using the collection in a course, could often find searching in Yale’s public access catalog for testimonies an opaque process. Although there is a catalog record for each of the circa 4500 testimonies in the collection, they are contained in the “books+” section of Yale’s public catalog — commingling with millions of other records. 

Despite the large number of items in the catalog, Books+ is still an excellent way to push the collection in front of students and researchers looking for resources on the experience of the Holocaust, who might be unfamiliar with our collection. After all, a simple search in the catalog for a term like “Gross-Rosen” would reveal dozens of relevant monographs as well as many of our testimonies, thereby opening up the research process to include archival materials that are often hidden in other search engines. 

The library catalog as primary search interface for our collection also made sense because we began this work before it even existed, and for many years it was _the_ sole means of engaging electronically with library materials — long before the initiation of local archival search engines and EAD finding aid databases. Moreover, reflecting the era in the 1980s when our cataloging practices emerged, testimonies in the collection were indeed cataloged to a certain extent like monographs, each story an autobiographical recording tagged with important themes, geographic and institutional access points in the form of Library of Congress subject headings. But it was more of a a hybrid document, leaning on archival standards for description at the time, and it resembled the offspring of a catalog record for a monograph and an conventional archival finding aid, since each catalog record also contains a free text biographical note that summarizes basic information like year and place of birth, number of siblings, as well as a terse chronology of the individual’s life story as reflected in the underlying testimony. 

Normal monograph and archival cataloging praxis, however, would certainly find the level of detail in our records an unsustainable monstrosity, with some records including dozens of LC subject headings. We would disagree, and it has served our purposes well during an age when search was limited to Boolean library catalogs, and when we lacked detailed searchable indices and transcripts that more closely reflect the word-for-word text of the testimony. Thankfully, this exacting cataloging praxis lends itself well for repurposing in a project like the Visual Search.[](https://yale-fortunoff.github.io/metadash/)

Based on internal use of _Visual Search_, we expect that this tool will prove useful to researchers. It is our hope that it will not only make individual testimonies more readily accessible to researchers, but that it will also give users insight into the collection as a whole, highlighting the connections that link the testimonies together.

<SideNote type="note" title="This training resource is located in the GitHub environment, so please go straight to the text in the 'readme' file. ">

</SideNote>

## L﻿earning outcome

A﻿fter viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- learn about Visual Search, which is a tool for both data visualisation and collection discovery

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out More Watching, Less Searching: Repurposing Fortunoff Archive Metadata for Visual Searching" url="https://blog.ehri-project.eu/2020/09/01/fortunoff-archive-metadata/" />

Commit message:

Prepating for publication
Shortening abstract
Updating publication date
heavy editing of body content to remove blog style and make it clearer what the resource contains
Removing sidenote as not necessary

content/posts/more-watching-less-searching-repurposing-fortunoff-archive-metadata-for-visual-searching/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "More Watching, Less Searching: Repurposing Fortunoff Archive Metadata
  for Visual Searching"
lang: en
date: 2023-03-16T15:09:49.407Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - naron-stephen
  - kara-jake
tags:
  - big-data
  - data-visualisation
  - digital-archives
  - e-heritage
  - metadata
  - repositories-and-collections
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: "The Fortunoff Visual Search is a tool for both data visualisation and collection discovery from the Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Tesimonies. This blogpost demonstrates the Visual Search tool in the Fortunoff Video Archive, including the search and filtering interface, as well as interpreting the resulting visualisations"
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2020-09-01T11:04:24.942Z
  url: https://blog.ehri-project.eu/2020/09/01/fortunoff-archive-metadata/
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: be5aUc62TBkd9ijpj0rFD
---
The Fortunoff Video Archive For Holocaust Testimonies and the Yale Digital Humanities Lab (DHLab) began building a [_Visual Search_ tool](https://yale-fortunoff.github.io/metadash/) in 2019 in order to provide a simple overview of the Fortunoff Archive’s collection and enable quick filtering and discovery of relevant testimonies. Before this, researchers who were new to Fortunoff’s collection would often find searching in Yale’s public access catalogue for testimonies an opaque process.

Tests within the Fortunoff Archive and Yale Digital Humanities Lab have shown _Visual Search_ that this tool is useful to researchers. This blogpost discusses the steps taken to develop the Visual Search tool, as well as the feedback that was received during these initial tests.  Furthermore, it provides a walk-through of steps to searching, filtering and visualising data found within the archive.

## L﻿earning outcome

A﻿fter viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- understand how the Visual Search function allows visualisation and discovery of content in the Fortunoff Video Archive.

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out More Watching, Less Searching: Repurposing Fortunoff Archive Metadata for Visual Searching" url="https://blog.ehri-project.eu/2020/09/01/fortunoff-archive-metadata/" />
