content/en/resources/hosted/data-journalism-and-ai-new-frontiers-in-investigation-and-storytelling/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Data Journalism and AI: New frontiers in investigation and storytelling"
locale: en
publication-date: 2023-06-15
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - heravi-bahareh
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-visualisation
  - big-data
  - digital-source-criticism
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: "Data Journalism and AI: New frontiers in investigation and storytelling"
  content: Data is now an indispensable part of investigative work and
    storytelling for journalists and newsrooms. Computational methods and
    artificial intelligence are making their way to newsrooms more than ever
    before, and promise to open up new opportunities for journalists, as well as
    new challenges. This talk provides an overview of how data and Artificial
    Intelligence can be used in the journalism workflow, investigative reporting
    and storytelling.
content-type: training-module
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1516-755e-ad26-659c0e1cad01
---
Data is now an indispensable part of investigative work and storytelling for journalists and newsrooms. Computational methods and artificial intelligence (AI) are making their way to newsrooms more than ever before, and promise to open up new opportunities for journalists, as well as new challenges. This talk provides an overview of how data and Artificial Intelligence can be used in the journalism workflow, investigative reporting and storytelling.

Dr Bahareh Heravi is a Reader (Professor) in AI & Media at the Institute for People-Centered AI at the University of Surrey. She specialises in Data & Computational Journalism, has widely published on the topic and has extensive international experience working with journalists and news media organisations on the use of data and algorithmic tools for reporting and storytelling. Bahareh is a board member of the Irish Government's Open Data Governance Board (Department of Public Expenditure & Reform), a founding co-chair of the Data & Computational Journalism Conference, and a Steering Committee member of the Computation+Journalism Conference. Prior to joining the University of Surrey, Bahareh founded and led the Data Journalism Programme at University College Dublin.

## Learning outcomes

After watching this video, learners will be able to:

* identify the value that data-led stories have in journalism
* recognise techniques that journalists and researchers can use to tell a story with data
* understand the challenges and opportunities that AI can bring to storytelling with data

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="FqtWpXIYY9c" title="Data Journalism and AI" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/data-journalism-and-ai-new-frontiers-in-investigation-and-storytelling/thumbnail-bahareh-heravi.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/data-journalism-and-ai-new-frontiers-in-investigation-and-storytelling/index.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Data Journalism and AI: New frontiers in investigation and storytelling'
locale: en
publication-date: 2023-06-15
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - heravi-bahareh
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-visualisation
  - big-data
  - digital-source-criticism
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: 'Data Journalism and AI: New frontiers in investigation and storytelling'
  content: >-
    Data is now an indispensable part of investigative work and storytelling for
    journalists and newsrooms. Computational methods and artificial intelligence
    are making their way to newsrooms more than ever before, and promise to open
    up new opportunities for journalists, as well as new challenges. This talk
    provides an overview of how data and Artificial Intelligence can be used in
    the journalism workflow, investigative reporting and storytelling.
content-type: training-module
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1516-755e-ad26-659c0e1cad01
---
Data is now an indispensable part of investigative work and storytelling for journalists and newsrooms. Computational methods and artificial intelligence (AI) are making their way to newsrooms more than ever before, and promise to open up new opportunities for journalists, as well as new challenges. This talk provides an overview of how data and Artificial Intelligence can be used in the journalism workflow, investigative reporting and storytelling.

Dr Bahareh Heravi is a Reader (Professor) in AI & Media at the Institute for People-Centered AI at the University of Surrey. She specialises in Data & Computational Journalism, has widely published on the topic and has extensive international experience working with journalists and news media organisations on the use of data and algorithmic tools for reporting and storytelling. Bahareh is a board member of the Irish Government's Open Data Governance Board (Department of Public Expenditure & Reform), a founding co-chair of the Data & Computational Journalism Conference, and a Steering Committee member of the Computation+Journalism Conference. Prior to joining the University of Surrey, Bahareh founded and led the Data Journalism Programme at University College Dublin.

## Learning outcomes

After watching this video, learners will be able to:

* identify the value that data-led stories have in journalism
* recognise techniques that journalists and researchers can use to tell a story with data
* understand the challenges and opportunities that AI can bring to storytelling with data

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="FqtWpXIYY9c" title="Data Journalism and AI" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/data-journalism-and-ai-new-frontiers-in-investigation-and-storytelling/thumbnail-bahareh-heravi.png" />
