contents/resources/from-wire-recordings-to-website/index.mdx, before:

---
title:
  'David Boder: From Wire Recordings to Website - A Lesson on Source Criticism
  in the Digital Age'
date: 2021-03-05
authors:
  - stefania-scagliola
contributors:
  - cristina-garcia-martin
editors:
  - stefania-scagliola
  - gerben-zaagsma
  - sarah-cooper
categories:
  - ranke2lu
tags:
  - source-criticism
  - repositories-and-collections
  - multimodality
  - training-education
  - history-of-technology
licence: CCBY 4.0
toc: false
targetGroup: Domain researchers, Lecturers
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
version: 1.0.0
abstract:
  'This lesson looks at how interviews with survivors of concentration camps
  collected by the Latvian-Jewish psychologist David Boder with a wire recorder
  in 1946 were eventually turned into digital data accessible on the web today.
  Consisting of a clip, a quiz, an interactive digital documentary, and a series
  of assignments, it examines the transformation of information from one medium
  (and technology) to another, a critical part of understanding digital history.'
type: training module
remoteUrl: https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/
remotePublicationDate: 2018-10-18
remotePublisher: ranke2lu
---

As historians, we are confronted with an abundance of data in digital form that
can be searched, annotated, analysed, presented and reused with the help of a
broad array of digital tools.

But what do we know about how digital technology affects the artefactual and
informational value of a source?

When looking through the lens of source criticism to digitized and digital born
sources, there are so many mediating processes going on before a source can
appear on our screen, that historians run the risk of getting detached from the
original context of the source.

The premise of the lesson _David Boder: From Wire Recordings to Website_
available on the [Ranke.2 platform](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/) is that the
recordings that David Boder made in 1946 in order to preserve the history of the
Holocaust via interviews conducted with a wire recorder have been made newly
available in digital form on the web when the interviews were transformed and
made available in 2009.

The lesson starts off with a short animation lasting 6.50 minutes, narrated by
researcher
[Stefania Scagliola](https://www.c2dh.uni.lu/people/stefania-scagliola), in
which she expands on Boder's original interviews and discuss the importance of
applying source criticism to the transformation of the interviews from their
original form to a digital one.

<figure style="width:100%; position:relative">
  <img
    src="./images/history-of-technology-from-wire-recording.png"
    style="width:100%"
  />
</figure>

> Frame still of the video _David Boder: From Wire Recordings to Website_

The clip is then repeated a second time in the form of a quiz to enable you to
test your understanding of the content, and a third time as an interactive
documentary. This is followed by a series of assignments that connect to the
topics in the animation in an accessible and engaging way:

- Being introduced to the
  [digital timeline tool TikiToki](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-01-contributing-to-a-timeline.en)
  and understanding the context in which Boder’s historical sources were
  created.
- Understanding the physics behind the differences of
  [analogue wire recordings and digital audio recordings](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-02-analogue-digital.en)
- Seeing the
  [different ways of documenting people’s accounts of the Holocaust](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-03-early-accounts-holocaust.en)
- [Identifying people in old photographs](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-04-photography-identity.en)
- The multimodal dimensions of archival material in
  [film and song](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-06-from-sociologist-to-ethnographer.en)
- The circumstances of
  [conducting interviews on the ground after the Second World War](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-07-where-did-Boder-conduct-his-interviews.en)
- How interviews can change, as seen in the
  [transformation from spoken language to typed text](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-08-a-look-in-Boders-first-publication.en)
- The advancement of technology and the
  [change from mimeograph records to digital copies](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-09-mimeograph.en)
- [The dissemination and consultation of Boder's work](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-10-Boder-Dissemination.en)
- How his records were brought back to light after comments on
  [Holocaust denial](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-11-Denial.en)
- Looking at changing narratives from
  [Edith Zierer’s story in 1946 and in 2003](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-12-Edith-Zierer.en)

Explore Ranke.2 by venturing into a mix of animations, quizzes and hands on
assignments.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Check out From the Archival to the Digital turn: a lesson on Source Criticism"
  url="https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/"
/>

Commit message:

add featured image and frame image

contents/resources/from-wire-recordings-to-website/index.mdx, after:

---
title:
  'David Boder: From Wire Recordings to Website - A Lesson on Source Criticism
  in the Digital Age'
date: 2021-03-05
authors:
  - stefania-scagliola
contributors:
  - cristina-garcia-martin
editors:
  - stefania-scagliola
  - gerben-zaagsma
  - sarah-cooper
categories:
  - ranke2lu
tags:
  - source-criticism
  - repositories-and-collections
  - multimodality
  - training-education
  - history-of-technology
licence: CCBY 4.0
toc: false
targetGroup: Domain researchers, Lecturers
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
version: 1.0.0
abstract:
  'This lesson looks at how interviews with survivors of concentration camps
  collected by the Latvian-Jewish psychologist David Boder with a wire recorder
  in 1946 were eventually turned into digital data that is accessible on a
  website today. Consisting of a clip, a quiz, an interactive digital
  documentary, and a series of assignments, the lesson examines the
  transformation of information from one medium (and technology) to another.
  Understanding these changes Is key for a critical appraisal of digital
  history.'
type: training module
featuredImage: images/history-of-technology-from-wire-recording.png
remoteUrl: https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/
remotePublicationDate: 2018-10-18
remotePublisher: ranke2lu
---

As historians, we are confronted with an abundance of data in digital form that
can be searched, annotated, analysed, presented and reused with the help of a
broad array of digital tools.

But what do we know about how digital technology affects the artefactual and
informational value of a source?

When looking through the lens of source criticism to digitized and digital born
sources, there are so many mediating processes going on before a source can
appear on our screen, that historians run the risk of getting detached from the
original context of the source.

The premise of the lesson _David Boder: From Wire Recordings to Website_
available on the [Ranke.2 platform](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/) is that the
recordings that David Boder made in 1946 in order to preserve the history of the
Holocaust via interviews conducted with a wire recorder have been made newly
available in digital form on the web when the interviews were transformed and
made available in 2009.

The lesson starts off with a short animation lasting 6.50 minutes, narrated by
researcher
[Stefania Scagliola](https://www.c2dh.uni.lu/people/stefania-scagliola), in
which she expands on Boder's original interviews and discuss the importance of
applying source criticism to the transformation of the interviews from their
original form to a digital one.

<figure style="width:100%; position:relative">
  <img src="./images/david-boder.jpg" style="width:100%" />
</figure>

> Frame still of the video _David Boder: From Wire Recordings to Website_

The clip is then repeated a second time in the form of a quiz to enable you to
test your understanding of the content, and a third time as an interactive
documentary. This is followed by a series of assignments that connect to the
topics in the animation in an accessible and engaging way:

- Being introduced to the
  [digital timeline tool TikiToki](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-01-contributing-to-a-timeline.en)
  and understanding the context in which Boder’s historical sources were
  created.
- Understanding the physics behind the differences of
  [analogue wire recordings and digital audio recordings](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-02-analogue-digital.en)
- Seeing the
  [different ways of documenting people’s accounts of the Holocaust](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-03-early-accounts-holocaust.en)
- [Identifying people in old photographs](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-04-photography-identity.en)
- The multimodal dimensions of archival material in
  [film and song](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-06-from-sociologist-to-ethnographer.en)
- The circumstances of
  [conducting interviews on the ground after the Second World War](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-07-where-did-Boder-conduct-his-interviews.en)
- How interviews can change, as seen in the
  [transformation from spoken language to typed text](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-08-a-look-in-Boders-first-publication.en)
- The advancement of technology and the
  [change from mimeograph records to digital copies](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-09-mimeograph.en)
- [The dissemination and consultation of Boder's work](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-10-Boder-Dissemination.en)
- How his records were brought back to light after comments on
  [Holocaust denial](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-11-Denial.en)
- Looking at changing narratives from
  [Edith Zierer’s story in 1946 and in 2003](https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/#assignment-12-Edith-Zierer.en)

Explore Ranke.2 by venturing into a mix of animations, quizzes and hands on
assignments.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Check out From the Archival to the Digital turn: a lesson on Source Criticism"
  url="https://ranke2.uni.lu/u/boder/"
/>
