contributing.md, before:

# Contributing to DARIAH-Campus

DARIAH-Campus is a combined discovery layer and hosting platform for DARIAH learning resources. This
guide will help you understand the project architecture and how to contribute.

## Technology stack

### Core technologies

- **Next.js 15**: The main framework for building the application
- **TypeScript 5**: For type-safety
- **Tailwind CSS 3**: For styles with utility classes
- **Node.js 22**: Required runtime environment
- **pnpm 10**: Package manager

### Key Components

#### Keystatic CMS

- Used for content management
- Provides a user-friendly interface for content editing
- Content is stored in MDX format
- Authentication is handled via GitHub OAuth, which is configured via
  [this GitHub App](https://github.com/organizations/DARIAH-ERIC/settings/apps/dariah-campus-keystatic-cms)
- Sign-in is available at `/admin`
- Configuration can be found in [`keystatic.config.tsx`](./keystatic.config.tsx)
- When developing locally, and no configuration for GitHub OAuth has been provided via environment
  variables, the CMS will save changes to the local filesystem and _not_ commit to GitHub
- Official docs: <https://keystatic.com/docs>

#### Typesense search

- Powers the search functionality
- Schema is defined in [`lib/typesense/schema.ts`](./lib/typesense/schema.ts)
- Search index is automatically built during deployment via
  [scripts/typesense/create-search-index.ts](./scripts/typesense/create-search-index.ts), which is
  triggered by the `build:search-index` npm script
- Uses off-the-shelf
  [InstantSearch components](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/what-is-instantsearch/react/)
  for search UI
- Docker compose config available for local development
- Official docs: <https://typesense.org/docs/>

## Project structure

```
.
├── app/                  # Next.js app router components
│   ├── (app)/            # Main application routes
│   └── (cms)/            # Keystatic CMS routes
├── config/               # Configuration
├── components/           # Shared components
├── content/              # Content files in MDX format
│   ├── en/               # English content
├── lib/                  # Shared utilities
│   ├── content/          # Content-related utilities
│   ├── i18n/             # Internationalization
│   ├── keystatic/        # Keystatic configuration and helpers
│   └── typesense/        # Typesense configuration and helpers
├── public/               # Static assets
└── scripts/              # Build and utility scripts
```

Components and utilities which are needed in more than one route should be saved in the top-level
`components` and `lib` folders. Components and utilities which are only needed in a single route
should instead be co-located with that route in a `_components` or `_lib` folder. For example:

```
.
└── app/
    └── (app)/
        └── search/
            ├── _components/    # Components for search UI
            └── _lib/           # Utilities for search
```

## Naming conventions

The project follows Next.js app router conventions and uses kebab-case for file and folder naming
These conventions are enforced with a [lint rule](./eslint.config.ts):

```ts
"check-file/filename-naming-convention": [
  "error",
  {
    "**/*": "KEBAB_CASE",
  },
  { ignoreMiddleExtensions: true },
],
"check-file/folder-naming-convention": [
  "error",
  {
    "**/": "NEXT_JS_APP_ROUTER_CASE",
  },
],
```

## Environment variables

All environment variables should be listed in [`.env.local.example`](`.env.local.example`), and
validated at runtime with the schema defined in [`config/env.config.ts`](./config/env.config.ts).

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_BASE_URL`: base url of deployment domain
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_REDMINE_ID`: Redmine id needed for the acdh-ch imprint service
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_BOTS`: whether web crawler are allowed to index the site. allowed values are
  "disabled" and "enabled". defaults to "disabled", but is set to "enabled" for production
  deployments on Vercel
- `ENV_VALIDATION`: whether environment variable validation is enabled. allowed values are
  "disabled", "public" (which will only validate build-args prefixed with `NEXT_PUBLIC_`) and
  "enabled". defaults to "enabled"
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_MATOMO_BASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_MATOMO_ID`: configuration for Matomo analytics
  service
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_SITE_VERIFICATION`: Google Search Console property verification token

### Typesense

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_COLLECTION`: Typesense collection name
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_HOST`: Typesense server host
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_PORT`: Typesense server port
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_PROTOCOL`: Typesense server protocol
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_SEARCH_API_KEY`: Typesense search-only api key, scoped to specific
  collection
- `TYPESENSE_ADMIN_API_KEY`: Typesense admin secret

### Keystatic

- `KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`: GitHub client id, necessary for GitHub OAuth
- `KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`: GitHub client secret, necessary for GitHub OAuth
- `KEYSTATIC_SECRET`: Keystatic secret
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_APP_SLUG`: Identifier of the GitHub App used for authentication
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_REPO_NAME`: GitHub repository
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_REPO_OWNER`: GitHub organisation
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_MODE`: whether to store changes to the local filesystem, or commit changes
  to GitHub. defaults to "local", should be set to "github" in production

## Content management

Content is managed using Keystatic CMS. The content structure includes:

- Resources (events, external, hosted, pathfinders)
- Curricula
- Tags (Topics)
- People
- Sources
- Documentation pages

Each content type is defined with a Keystatic collection schema in
[lib/keystatic/collections.ts](./lib/keystatic/collections.ts).

Custom components, which can be used as rich-text editor widgets, are defined in
[lib/keystatic/collections.ts](./lib/keystatic/components.ts). To correctly render these custom
components in the app, a React component must also be provided to the component mapping in
[mdx-components.tsx](./mdx-components.tsx).

MDX content is transformed to React components with the processing pipeline defined in
[config/mdx.config.ts](./config/mdx.config.ts), which adds plugins to:

- add support for GitHub flavored markdown (strikethrough, tables, etc.)
- add support for footnotes
- transform regular quotes and dashes into their typographic variants
- add `id` attributes to headings, so they can be targeted by url-fragment links
- extracts a table of contents
- adds support for syntax-highlighting in code blocks

In production, GitHub
[branch protection rules](https://github.com/DARIAH-ERIC/dariah-campus/settings/branches) enforce,
that nobody (except repository administrators) are allowed to push changes directly to the `main`
branch, but are required to create a new branch and open a pull request. The Keystatic UI helps
doing that.

## Search

The search functionality is powered by Typesense. The search schema is defined in
[lib/typesense/schema.ts](./lib/typesense/schema.ts).

### Development setup for Typesense

1. Start a local Typesense server

Create an api key and provide it as the `TYPESENSE_ADMIN_API_KEY` environment variable in
`.env.local`. Then run:

```bash
pnpm run dev:typesense:up
```

2. Create a search-only api key:

```bash
pnpm run typesense:api-key:create
```

This will print the api key to the console, which you then need to set as
`NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_SEARCH_API_KEY` in `.env.local`:

3. Create and seed the collection:

```bash
pnpm run typesense:collection:create
pnpm run typesense:collection:seed
```

## Development Workflow

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

2. Copy the .env file template and set required environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```

3. Start development server

```bash
pnpm run dev
```

4. Formatting, linting, and type-checking

```bash
pnpm run format:check
pnpm run lint:check
pnpm run types:check
```

Auto-fixable formatting and lint errors can be fixed with:

```bash
pnpm run format:fix
pnpm run lint:fix
```

Commit message:

docs: add section on production deployment to contributing guide

contributing.md, after:

# Contributing to DARIAH-Campus

DARIAH-Campus is a combined discovery layer and hosting platform for DARIAH learning resources. This
guide will help you understand the project architecture and how to contribute.

## Technology stack

### Core technologies

- **Next.js 15**: The main framework for building the application
- **TypeScript 5**: For type-safety
- **Tailwind CSS 3**: For styles with utility classes
- **Node.js 22**: Required runtime environment
- **pnpm 10**: Package manager

### Key Components

#### Keystatic CMS

- Used for content management
- Provides a user-friendly interface for content editing
- Content is stored in MDX format
- Authentication is handled via GitHub OAuth, which is configured via
  [this GitHub App](https://github.com/organizations/DARIAH-ERIC/settings/apps/dariah-campus-keystatic-cms)
- Sign-in is available at `/admin`
- Configuration can be found in [`keystatic.config.tsx`](./keystatic.config.tsx)
- When developing locally, and no configuration for GitHub OAuth has been provided via environment
  variables, the CMS will save changes to the local filesystem and _not_ commit to GitHub
- Official docs: <https://keystatic.com/docs>

#### Typesense search

- Powers the search functionality
- Schema is defined in [`lib/typesense/schema.ts`](./lib/typesense/schema.ts)
- Search index is automatically built during deployment via
  [scripts/typesense/create-search-index.ts](./scripts/typesense/create-search-index.ts), which is
  triggered by the `build:search-index` npm script
- Uses off-the-shelf
  [InstantSearch components](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/what-is-instantsearch/react/)
  for search UI
- Docker compose config available for local development
- Official docs: <https://typesense.org/docs/>

## Project structure

```
.
├── app/                  # Next.js app router components
│   ├── (app)/            # Main application routes
│   └── (cms)/            # Keystatic CMS routes
├── config/               # Configuration
├── components/           # Shared components
├── content/              # Content files in MDX format
│   ├── en/               # English content
├── lib/                  # Shared utilities
│   ├── content/          # Content-related utilities
│   ├── i18n/             # Internationalization
│   ├── keystatic/        # Keystatic configuration and helpers
│   └── typesense/        # Typesense configuration and helpers
├── public/               # Static assets
└── scripts/              # Build and utility scripts
```

Components and utilities which are needed in more than one route should be saved in the top-level
`components` and `lib` folders. Components and utilities which are only needed in a single route
should instead be co-located with that route in a `_components` or `_lib` folder. For example:

```
.
└── app/
    └── (app)/
        └── search/
            ├── _components/    # Components for search UI
            └── _lib/           # Utilities for search
```

## Naming conventions

The project follows Next.js app router conventions and uses kebab-case for file and folder naming
These conventions are enforced with a [lint rule](./eslint.config.ts):

```ts
"check-file/filename-naming-convention": [
  "error",
  {
    "**/*": "KEBAB_CASE",
  },
  { ignoreMiddleExtensions: true },
],
"check-file/folder-naming-convention": [
  "error",
  {
    "**/": "NEXT_JS_APP_ROUTER_CASE",
  },
],
```

## Environment variables

All environment variables should be listed in [`.env.local.example`](`.env.local.example`), and
validated at runtime with the schema defined in [`config/env.config.ts`](./config/env.config.ts).

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_BASE_URL`: base url of deployment domain
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_REDMINE_ID`: Redmine id needed for the acdh-ch imprint service
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_BOTS`: whether web crawler are allowed to index the site. allowed values are
  "disabled" and "enabled". defaults to "disabled", but is set to "enabled" for production
  deployments on Vercel
- `ENV_VALIDATION`: whether environment variable validation is enabled. allowed values are
  "disabled", "public" (which will only validate build-args prefixed with `NEXT_PUBLIC_`) and
  "enabled". defaults to "enabled"
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_MATOMO_BASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_MATOMO_ID`: configuration for Matomo analytics
  service
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_SITE_VERIFICATION`: Google Search Console property verification token

### Typesense

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_COLLECTION`: Typesense collection name
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_HOST`: Typesense server host
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_PORT`: Typesense server port
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_PROTOCOL`: Typesense server protocol
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_SEARCH_API_KEY`: Typesense search-only api key, scoped to specific
  collection
- `TYPESENSE_ADMIN_API_KEY`: Typesense admin secret

### Keystatic

- `KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`: GitHub client id, necessary for GitHub OAuth
- `KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`: GitHub client secret, necessary for GitHub OAuth
- `KEYSTATIC_SECRET`: Keystatic secret
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_APP_SLUG`: Identifier of the GitHub App used for authentication
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_REPO_NAME`: GitHub repository
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_GITHUB_REPO_OWNER`: GitHub organisation
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_KEYSTATIC_MODE`: whether to store changes to the local filesystem, or commit changes
  to GitHub. defaults to "local", should be set to "github" in production

## Content management

Content is managed using Keystatic CMS. The content structure includes:

- Resources (events, external, hosted, pathfinders)
- Curricula
- Tags (Topics)
- People
- Sources
- Documentation pages

Each content type is defined with a Keystatic collection schema in
[lib/keystatic/collections.ts](./lib/keystatic/collections.ts).

Custom components, which can be used as rich-text editor widgets, are defined in
[lib/keystatic/collections.ts](./lib/keystatic/components.ts). To correctly render these custom
components in the app, a React component must also be provided to the component mapping in
[mdx-components.tsx](./mdx-components.tsx).

MDX content is transformed to React components with the processing pipeline defined in
[config/mdx.config.ts](./config/mdx.config.ts), which adds plugins to:

- add support for GitHub flavored markdown (strikethrough, tables, etc.)
- add support for footnotes
- transform regular quotes and dashes into their typographic variants
- add `id` attributes to headings, so they can be targeted by url-fragment links
- extracts a table of contents
- adds support for syntax-highlighting in code blocks

In production, GitHub
[branch protection rules](https://github.com/DARIAH-ERIC/dariah-campus/settings/branches) enforce,
that nobody (except repository administrators) are allowed to push changes directly to the `main`
branch, but are required to create a new branch and open a pull request. The Keystatic UI helps
doing that.

## Search

The search functionality is powered by Typesense. The search schema is defined in
[lib/typesense/schema.ts](./lib/typesense/schema.ts).

### Development setup for Typesense

1. Start a local Typesense server

Create an api key and provide it as the `TYPESENSE_ADMIN_API_KEY` environment variable in
`.env.local`. Then run:

```bash
pnpm run dev:typesense:up
```

2. Create a search-only api key:

```bash
pnpm run typesense:api-key:create
```

This will print the api key to the console, which you then need to set as
`NEXT_PUBLIC_TYPESENSE_SEARCH_API_KEY` in `.env.local`:

3. Create and seed the collection:

```bash
pnpm run typesense:collection:create
pnpm run typesense:collection:seed
```

## Development workflow

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

2. Copy the .env file template and set required environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```

3. Start development server

```bash
pnpm run dev
```

4. Formatting, linting, and type-checking

```bash
pnpm run format:check
pnpm run lint:check
pnpm run types:check
```

Auto-fixable formatting and lint errors can be fixed with:

```bash
pnpm run format:fix
pnpm run lint:fix
```

## Production deployment

The production app is hosted on Vercel. Every push to GitHub triggers a fresh deployment. Preview
deployments from pull-request branches can be viewed publicly by pressing the "View deployment"
button in the pull request comments.

The Vercel Dashboard, where environment variables and secrets can be set, is available at
[https://vercel.com/dariah/dariah-campus](https://vercel.com/dariah/dariah-campus) (invitation
required).
