<!--lint disable first-heading-level-->

# DARIAH-Campus

DARIAH-Campus (D-C) is a combined discovery layer and hosting platform for all learning resources
associated with DARIAH-EU. As a discovery layer, D-C links to existing, externally hosted, resources
(such as #dariahTeach, PARTHENOS etc.); and as a hosting platform, D-C offers a flexible framework
for developing and sharing web-based training materials, as well as capturing face-to-face events.

D-C materials are hosted and version-controlled in this GitHub repository and will be delivered to
the user as a Gatsby-based overlay website.

Authors and contributors will be provided with comprehensive author guidelines on how to port
existing or create new content for D-C in Markdown, a lightweight markup language with plain text
formatting syntax. The overarching aim of D-C is to improve the openness, discoverability,
usability, and long-term sustainability of training resources, and to achieve best practice in the
production and management of open educational resources in the DARIAH ecosystem.

_Co-funded by the Horizon 2020 innovation and research programme of the European Union under grants
no. 731081 and 823782._

## View content

Visit the website at [https://campus.dariah.eu](https://campus.dariah.eu).

## Contribute content

### Contribute or edit content via CMS

Sign-in to the CMS with your GitHub account at
[https://campus.dariah.eu/admin](https://campus.dariah.eu/admin).

For edits to existing articles you can also directly click the "Suggest changes to this resource"
link at the bottom of each post.

### Run a local CMS backend

You can run a local CMS backend which writes directly to the filesystem, and does not require
authentication, with `yarn cms:dev`. Then run either a production build of the website with
`NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_LOCAL_CMS='true' yarn build && yarn start` or a development build with `yarn dev`
and visit [http://localhost:3000/cms](http://localhost:3000/admin). Don't forget to commit and push
changes via `git`.

### Use your favorite text editor

Since content is saved to `.mdx` files in the `content/posts` folder, you can use your favourite
text editor to make changes and commit via `git`. When using VS Code you can install the recommended
extensions to get linting aud auto-formatting for markdown.

### Contributing guidelines

When contributing content directly via `git`, please use feature branches and don't push to `main`,
to allow for review.

### Note on writing Markdown

Content is saved in MDX format, which is markdown with custom JavaScript components. Most markdown
syntax is supported, however there are
[subtle parsing differences](https://github.com/micromark/mdx-state-machine#72-deviations-from-markdown)
to be aware of. Most notably: the "lesser than" sign `<` needs to be HTML-escaped to `&lt;` (because
it signifies the start of a custom component), and similarly "autolinks" (`<https://example.com>`
instead of `[https://example.com](https://example.com)`) are not allowed.
