content/en/resources/hosted/queens-of-humanities/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Queens of Humanities
locale: en
publication-date: 2023-03-15
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - wnuk-magdalena
  - swietlik-marta
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-visualisation
  - training-and-education
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: How do we tell the story of humanities as the essence of understanding
    humankind in all its aspects and bring it back to the table as an equal
    partner of science? Seeking an answer to this  question, this webinar
    (delivered as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers series) presents the scope
    and dissemination of the Queens of Humanities campaign that ran in 2022, led
    by OPERAS-PL. Its purpose was to promote innovative humanistic approaches
    and show their relevance in today's world.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-20e3-7309-aa8c-12529a73c434
---
How do we tell the story of humanities as the essence of understanding humankind in all its
aspects and bring it back to the table as an equal partner of science? Seeking an answer to this
question, this webinar presents the scope and dissemination of the Queens of Humanities campaign
run last year by OPERAS-PL. Its purpose was to promote innovative humanistic approaches and
show their relevance in today's world.

"Born digital" monographs, data visualisations, web applications, podcasts or vlogs were
presented as innovative outputs aimed at telling the story of humanities as an indispensable and
ubiquitous means of expanding human knowledge about the world. The posts were also an
occasion to bring up important problems of humanities research, such as the underestimation of
innovative publications that do not fit with the strict academic criteria.

The "Queens of Humanities" project is a simple, yet inspiring advocacy project which can be
implemented among different audiences and through various social channels. It also reflects on
Facebook, which, despite increasing competition in the area of social media, offers
unsophisticated, yet sufficient solutions for storytelling targeted at specific local audiences.

Projects and links referenced in this webinar include:

* Queens of Humanities website\
  [https://bit.ly/Queens\_of\_Humanities](https://bit.ly/Queens_of_Humanities)
* Chinese Deathscape - Grave Reform in Modern China\
  [https://chinesedeathscape.supdigital.org](https://chinesedeathscape.supdigital.org)
* The Lost Treasures\
  [https://treasures.ui.org.ua](https://treasures.ui.org.ua)
* digital love languages\
  [https://lovelanguages.melaniehoff.com](https://lovelanguages.melaniehoff.com)
* Otwarta Humanistyka\
  [https://otwartanauka.hypotheses.org](https://otwartanauka.hypotheses.org)

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this webinar, learner will be able to:

* understand the challenges in measuring impact in the Humanities
* see how other projects have advocated for humanities projects
* recognise how to put measurements for impact in place in their project design

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="T3s2ZuGIMWs" title="Queens of Humanities" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/queens-of-humanities/queens-of-humanities-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/queens-of-humanities/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Queens of Humanities
locale: en
publication-date: 2023-03-15
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - wnuk-magdalena
  - swietlik-marta
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-visualisation
  - training-and-education
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: >-
    How do we tell the story of humanities as the essence of understanding
    humankind in all its aspects and bring it back to the table as an equal
    partner of science? Seeking an answer to this  question, this webinar
    (delivered as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers series) presents the scope
    and dissemination of the Queens of Humanities campaign that ran in 2022, led
    by OPERAS-PL. Its purpose was to promote innovative humanistic approaches
    and show their relevance in today's world.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-20e3-7309-aa8c-12529a73c434
---
How do we tell the story of humanities as the essence of understanding humankind in all its
aspects and bring it back to the table as an equal partner of science? Seeking an answer to this
question, this webinar presents the scope and dissemination of the Queens of Humanities campaign
run last year by OPERAS-PL. Its purpose was to promote innovative humanistic approaches and
show their relevance in today's world.

"Born digital" monographs, data visualisations, web applications, podcasts or vlogs were
presented as innovative outputs aimed at telling the story of humanities as an indispensable and
ubiquitous means of expanding human knowledge about the world. The posts were also an
occasion to bring up important problems of humanities research, such as the underestimation of
innovative publications that do not fit with the strict academic criteria.

The "Queens of Humanities" project is a simple, yet inspiring advocacy project which can be
implemented among different audiences and through various social channels. It also reflects on
Facebook, which, despite increasing competition in the area of social media, offers
unsophisticated, yet sufficient solutions for storytelling targeted at specific local audiences.

Projects and links referenced in this webinar include:

* Queens of Humanities website\
  [https://bit.ly/Queens\_of\_Humanities](https://bit.ly/Queens_of_Humanities)
* Chinese Deathscape - Grave Reform in Modern China\
  [https://chinesedeathscape.supdigital.org](https://chinesedeathscape.supdigital.org)
* The Lost Treasures\
  [https://treasures.ui.org.ua](https://treasures.ui.org.ua)
* digital love languages\
  [https://lovelanguages.melaniehoff.com](https://lovelanguages.melaniehoff.com)
* Otwarta Humanistyka\
  [https://otwartanauka.hypotheses.org](https://otwartanauka.hypotheses.org)

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this webinar, learner will be able to:

* understand the challenges in measuring impact in the Humanities
* see how other projects have advocated for humanities projects
* recognise how to put measurements for impact in place in their project design

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="T3s2ZuGIMWs" title="Queens of Humanities" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/queens-of-humanities/queens-of-humanities-thumbnail.png" />
