content/posts/digitization-workflow-talk-with-esaù-dozio/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Esaù Dozio, a curator’s view"
shortTitle: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Esaù Dozio, a curator’s view"
lang: en
date: 2025-01-17T08:14:06.429Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - haller-jane
  - dozio-esaù
  - chiquet-vera
tags:
  - cultural-heritage
  - augmented-reality
  - computational-imaging
  - data-visualisation
  - digital-archives
  - digital-source-criticism
  - e-heritage
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: images/final_culture-digital-podcast-covermondrian.jpg
abstract: Jane Haller, a sociologist, digital project manager, and president of
  the Digitales Schaudepot, is in conversation with Esaù Dozio. Esaù has a
  background in classical archeology and is responsible for special exhibitions
  and for the vase collection, he works as a curator at the Antikenmuseum Basel.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: audio
remote:
  date: 2025-01-17T08:16:24.775Z
  publisher: zenodo
  url: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11224325
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: MLqdwI_5MntAl7iVHUPUn
---
As a winning project of the Dariah Theme Call 2022-2024 on Workflows, we evaluated a showcase project called “curiositas5.0”, initiated by the Digitales Schaudepot Association (DSD) it is intended to assist in planning projects and, above all, avoiding unwanted missteps. Keep in mind that each project is distinct and may necessitate alternative measures. We conducted interviews to capture voices from the community and provide insight into the different working methods, expertise, and backgrounds of the people collaborating on the curiositas5.0 project. 

**Form a curator’s view: Understanding the digital potential for small objects**, enabling experts to new perspectives and insights through high-resolution digitalization. Is Digitalization a must, as the whole world is digital?

**Learning outcomes**

After listening to this resource, learners will

- Understand the digital potential for small objects
- Know how the digital enables experts to new perspectives, questions
- Understand the challenges of digitization projects

  <ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Podcast from a curator's view (spotify)" url="https://open.spotify.com/episode/3ZBbfxxaOPvgB5sYuJY1FL?si=gdhoMCz_QhuQAngS0AryEQ" />

  <ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Audio on zenodo" url="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11224325" />

Commit message:

overhauling content
fixing minor metadata issues
re-working abstract to better describe resource
re-working description to give more accurate information about contents of podcast

content/posts/digitization-workflow-talk-with-esaù-dozio/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Esaù Dozio, a Curator's View"
shortTitle: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Esaù Dozio, a Curator's View"
lang: en
date: 2025-01-20T08:14:06.429Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - haller-jane
  - dozio-esaù
  - chiquet-vera
tags:
  - cultural-heritage
  - augmented-reality
  - computational-imaging
  - data-visualisation
  - digital-archives
  - digital-source-criticism
  - e-heritage
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: images/final_culture-digital-podcast-covermondrian.jpg
abstract: In this podcast, produced by virturalculture.ch, Jane Haller, a sociologist, digital project manager, and president of the Digitales Schaudepot, is in conversation with Esaù Dozio, a curator at the Antikenmuseum Basel. Within their chat, they discuss the process of selecting items for special exhibitions, and the mistakes and challenges that can arise.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: audio
remote:
  date: 2025-01-17T08:16:24.775Z
  publisher: zenodo
  url: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11224325
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: MLqdwI_5MntAl7iVHUPUn
---

This podcast produced by virtualculture.ch features a conversation between Jane Haller, president of the Digitales Schaudepot, and Esaù Dozio, curator at the Antikenmuseum Basel.  In it they discuss the processes of curating a special exhibition; the perceived advantages and disadvantages between physical and digital exhibitions both in terms of management and curation, and the impact both might have on the public; and what mistakes, missteps and challenges were faced along the way.

As a winning project of the DARIAH Thematic Funding Call 2022-2024 on Workflows, we evaluated a showcase project called “curiositas5.0”, initiated by the Digitales Schaudepot Association (DSD). We conducted interviews to capture voices from the community and provide insight into the different working methods, expertise, and backgrounds of the people collaborating on the curiositas5.0 project, and turned the interviews into podcasts for broadcast.


## Learning outcomes

After listening to this resource, learners will be able to:

- Understand the digital potential for small objects
- Know how the digital enables experts to new perspectives, questions
- Understand the challenges of digitization projects

  <ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Podcast from a curator's view (spotify)" url="https://open.spotify.com/episode/3ZBbfxxaOPvgB5sYuJY1FL?si=gdhoMCz_QhuQAngS0AryEQ" />
