content/posts/extracting-csv-data-from-the-ehri-search-api/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Extracting CSV data from the EHRI Search API
lang: en
date: 2022-11-14T15:14:28.421Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - bryant-mike
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: The EHRI (European Holocaust Research Infrastructure) Search API
  provides a way of retrieving information about items in the EHRI portal in
  JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format by making HTTP requests to particular
  URLs. Instead of using a web browser to make web requests which return HTML
  pages, we use a command line tool (CuRL) that fetches structured data we can
  then transform into CSV (comma separated values), a format we can then import
  into a spreadsheet like Excel or Google Docs.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2019-08-15T13:16:31.887Z
  url: https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/ehri-search-api
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: eTJxkgSa0yFCxZzwGdInz
---
This tutorial shows you how to use some popular command-line tools (available on MacOS, Linux, and Windows) to extract data from the EHRI Search API and convert it to CSV, where it can be imported into Excel or a relational database. The tools we will be using are as follows:

- [Curl](https://curl.haxx.se/) - a tool for making HTTP(S) requests from the command line
- [Jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) - a tool for processing and transforming JSON data in various ways

Both Curl and Jq are available on various platforms, but precise details of usage may vary depending on the version and platform. This guide will assume you're using a system with a standard Unix-like shell (such as Bash), standard on MacOS or Linux and available on Windows in various forms such as [WSL](https://itsfoss.com/install-bash-on-windows/) or [Git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/).

<SideNote type="note" title="This training resource is located in the GitHub environment, so please go straight to the text in the 'readme' file. ">

</SideNote>

## L﻿earning outcome

A﻿fter viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- use some popular command-line tools (available on MacOS, Linux, and Windows) to extract data from the EHRI Search API and convert it to CSV, where it can be imported into Excel or a relational database

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out Extracting CSV data from the EHRI Search API" url="https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/ehri-search-api" />

Commit message:

Preparing for publication
Shortening abstract
updating publication date
separating learning outcomes
updating URL to README link
removing sidenote

content/posts/extracting-csv-data-from-the-ehri-search-api/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Extracting CSV data from the EHRI Search API
lang: en
date: 2023-03-15T15:14:28.421Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - bryant-mike
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: The EHRI (European Holocaust Research Infrastructure) Search API
  provides a way to retrieve information about items in the EHRI portal in
  JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format by making HTTP requests to particular
  URLs. This short tutorial shows learners how use a command line tool (CuRL) to fetch structured data and transform it into CSV (comma separated values) format for import
  into a spreadsheet like Excel or Google Docs.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2019-08-15T13:16:31.887Z
  url: https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/ehri-search-api
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: eTJxkgSa0yFCxZzwGdInz
---
This tutorial shows you how to use some popular command-line tools (available on MacOS, Linux, and Windows) to extract data from the EHRI Search API and convert it to CSV, where it can be imported into Excel or a relational database. The tools we will be using are as follows:

- [Curl](https://curl.haxx.se/) - a tool for making HTTP(S) requests from the command line
- [Jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) - a tool for processing and transforming JSON data in various ways

Both Curl and Jq are available on various platforms, but precise details of usage may vary depending on the version and platform. This guide will assume you're using a system with a standard Unix-like shell (such as Bash), standard on MacOS or Linux and available on Windows in various forms such as [WSL](https://itsfoss.com/install-bash-on-windows/) or [Git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/).


## L﻿earning outcomes

A﻿fter viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- use some popular command-line tools (available on MacOS, Linux, and Windows) to extract data from the EHRI Search API
- convert extracted data to CSV format
- import data from a CSV file into Excel or a relational database

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out Extracting CSV data from the EHRI Search API" url="https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/ehri-search-api#readme" />
