content/posts/you-never-build-just-one-interface-you-dont-even-own-it/index.mdx, before:

---
title: You Never Build Just One Interface - You Don't Even Own It
shortTitle: ""
lang: en
date: 2022-02-15T16:05:41.457Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - heilmann-chris
tags:
  - computational-imaging
  - digital-archives
  - history-of-technology
categories:
  - dariah
abstract: In this closing keynote at the DARIAH Virtual Annual Event 2021, Chris
  Heilmann, Principal PM for developer tools at Microsoft, covers a range of
  user-scenarios that he had to cover in the 25 years of building products for
  people on the web and what benefits it had to let go.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2021-09-23T00:00:00.000Z
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: NRqm-kS5x21TZvgom6bV0
---
# About the resource

We live in a distributed data world with ubiquitous computing. This is wonderful but it also comes at a price. The price is flexibility or - in other words - letting go of the idea that you as the creator own the interface. Publishing your product on the web means you need to consider a lot of different use cases and user needs you may not even know about. 

In this closing keynote at the DARIAH Virtual Annual Event 2021, Chris Heilmann, Principal PM for developer tools at Microsoft, is going to cover lots of scenarios he had to cover in the 25 years of building products for people on the web and what benefits it had to let go. 

The keynote was recorded on September 9, 2021, at the DARIAH Virtual Annual Event 2021. [https://www.dariah.eu/](https://www.youtube.com/redirect?event=video_description&redir_token=QUFFLUhqa2gwcFdVYUM0YldUUWdWb3JxY0lWZTBZVGJ1UXxBQ3Jtc0tsZGNmei1lb0hWN1I5U0hRU0ZkUmZBQUdsWGtVRGw3X2R0UXF2NDk2Y2cyZjR6bnYwQVg2MWtTSmhjM2ZudTRFbFM2bVJ4VVJqYkJwcF9yOUR1LTFHeE1lZkl5bmtlQ2JjZEdSakhkVkpCbW9ZZDNWbw&q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.dariah.eu%2F)

## Learning Outcomes

After watching this keynote speech, viewers will:

- Be aware of the variety of user-issues that can arise when designing and building a website
- Understand accessibility challenges and what can go wrong in web-design
- Recognise potential issues in web-design and online presence that can prevent users from fully engaging with a resource



<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="0xFSco1azVc" title="You Never Build Just One Interface - You Don't Even Own It" subtitle="Click here to view" image="images/chris-heilmann-image.png" />

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "you-never-build-just-one-interface-you-dont-even-own-it/index" (#399)
Automatically generated. Merged on Netlify CMS.

content/posts/you-never-build-just-one-interface-you-dont-even-own-it/index.mdx, after:

---
title: You Never Build Just One Interface - You Don't Even Own It
shortTitle: You Never Build Just One Interface - You Don't Even Own It
lang: en
date: 2022-02-15T16:05:41.457Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - heilmann-chris
tags:
  - computational-imaging
  - digital-archives
  - history-of-technology
categories:
  - dariah
abstract: In this closing keynote at the DARIAH Virtual Annual Event 2021, Chris
  Heilmann, Principal PM for developer tools at Microsoft, covers a range of
  user-scenarios that he had to cover in the 25 years of building products for
  people on the web and what benefits it had to let go.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2021-09-23T00:00:00.000Z
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: NRqm-kS5x21TZvgom6bV0
---
# About the resource

We live in a distributed data world with ubiquitous computing. This is wonderful but it also comes at a price. The price is flexibility or - in other words - letting go of the idea that you as the creator own the interface. Publishing your product on the web means you need to consider a lot of different use cases and user needs you may not even know about. 

In this closing keynote at the DARIAH Virtual Annual Event 2021, Chris Heilmann, Principal PM for developer tools at Microsoft, is going to cover lots of scenarios he had to cover in the 25 years of building products for people on the web and what benefits it had to let go. 

The keynote was recorded on September 9, 2021, at the DARIAH Virtual Annual Event 2021. [https://www.dariah.eu/](https://www.youtube.com/redirect?event=video_description&redir_token=QUFFLUhqa2gwcFdVYUM0YldUUWdWb3JxY0lWZTBZVGJ1UXxBQ3Jtc0tsZGNmei1lb0hWN1I5U0hRU0ZkUmZBQUdsWGtVRGw3X2R0UXF2NDk2Y2cyZjR6bnYwQVg2MWtTSmhjM2ZudTRFbFM2bVJ4VVJqYkJwcF9yOUR1LTFHeE1lZkl5bmtlQ2JjZEdSakhkVkpCbW9ZZDNWbw&q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.dariah.eu%2F)

## Learning Outcomes

After watching this keynote speech, viewers will:

- Be aware of the variety of user-issues that can arise when designing and building a website
- Understand accessibility challenges and what can go wrong in web-design
- Recognise potential issues in web-design and online presence that can prevent users from fully engaging with a resource



<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="0xFSco1azVc" title="You Never Build Just One Interface - You Don't Even Own It" subtitle="Click here to view" image="images/chris-heilmann-image.png" />
