content/posts/working-with-named-places-how-and-why-to-build-a-gazetteer/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Working with Named Places: How and Why to Build a Gazetteer"
lang: en
date: 2024-12-11T00:47:31.305Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - grunewald-susan
  - mostern-ruth
editors:
  - ryan-yann
tags:
  - dh
  - open-education
  - open-access
  - data-management
  - linked-open-data
categories:
  - programming-historian
featuredImage: images/space-place-gazetteers-original.png
abstract: A digital gazetteer records information associated with specific
  places. This lesson teaches you how to create a gazetteer from a historical
  text, using the Linked Places Delimited (LP-TSV) format.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2024-03-27T00:51:00.000Z
  url: https://doi.org/10.46430/phen0117
  publisher: ProgHist Ltd
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: OYELQ2Qt0I5EbO7gRUyrY
---
#### Reviewed by:    
- Vincent Ducatteeuw 
- Andrew Janco

## Learning outcomes

After completing this lesson, you will be able to:

- Understand the concept of place
- Define what a gazetteer is and distinguish it from other forms of spatial information
- Identify scenarios for which creating a gazetteer may be preferable to using a geographic information system
- Transform a historical text into a gazetteer
- Share a gazetteer with other platforms to enhance it and use it for analytical purposes 

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out this lesson on Programming Historian's website" url="https://doi.org/10.46430/phen0117" />

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "working-with-named-places-how-and-why-to-build-a-gazetteer/index"

content/posts/working-with-named-places-how-and-why-to-build-a-gazetteer/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Working with Named Places: How and Why to Build a Gazetteer"
lang: en
date: 2024-12-11T00:47:31.305Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - grunewald-susan
  - mostern-ruth
editors:
  - ryan-yann
tags:
  - dh
  - open-education
  - open-access
  - data-management
  - linked-open-data
categories:
  - programming-historian
featuredImage: images/space-place-gazetteers-original.png
abstract: A digital gazetteer records information associated with specific
  places. This lesson teaches you how to create a gazetteer from a historical
  text, using the Linked Places Delimited (LP-TSV) format.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2024-03-27T00:51:00.000Z
  url: https://doi.org/10.46430/phen0117
  publisher: ProgHist Ltd
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: OYELQ2Qt0I5EbO7gRUyrY
---
This lesson teaches you how to leverage the power of digital gazetteers, which are essential resources for spatial history. Unlike maps, gazetteers can readily connect named spatial entities with one another and with their modern locations, and they make it easy to annotate any identified place with information about texts, events, people, or other places that have been associated with it.

This lesson will demonstrate how to build a digital gazetteer, starting with a simple spreadsheet that you can build into Linked Open Data resources to communicate with other projects.

#### Reviewed by:    
- Vincent Ducatteeuw 
- Andrew Janco

## Learning outcomes

After completing this lesson, you will be able to:

- Understand the concept of place
- Define what a gazetteer is and distinguish it from other forms of spatial information
- Identify scenarios for which creating a gazetteer may be preferable to using a geographic information system
- Transform a historical text into a gazetteer
- Share a gazetteer with other platforms to enhance it and use it for analytical purposes 

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out this lesson on Programming Historian's website" url="https://doi.org/10.46430/phen0117" />
