content/en/resources/hosted/the-time-machine-project/index.mdx, before:

---
title: The Time Machine Project
locale: en
publication-date: 2020-12-07
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - jongepier-iason
  - wevers-melvin
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - dh
  - e-heritage
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: Iason Jongepier from the University of Antwerp and Melvin Wevers from
    the University of Amsterdam explore the Time Machine Project and how local
    Time Machine instances can help us expand our understanding of the social,
    environmental and economic history of the city.
content-type: training-module
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/0195cc28-a1d0-747e-9425-ae0e52da6248
---
As part of DARIAH's ongoing In-House Webinar series, the 'Friday Frontiers', Melvin Wevers (University of Amsterdam) and Iason Jongepier (University of Antwerp) gave us an insight into the Time Machine Project and how local Time Machine projects have brought new understanding to the social, environmental and economic history of Amsterdam and Antwerp.

In this screencast, viewers will learn about the Time Machine Project structure, and how visualisations of cultural heritage such as these can deepen an understanding of local history.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="pM33gxkUYyA" title="Click to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/the-time-machine-project/friday-frontiers.png" subtitle="The Time Machine Project" startTime={206} />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/the-time-machine-project/index.mdx, after:

---
title: The Time Machine Project
locale: en
publication-date: 2020-12-07
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - jongepier-iason
  - wevers-melvin
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - dh
  - e-heritage
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: >-
    Iason Jongepier from the University of Antwerp and Melvin Wevers from the
    University of Amsterdam explore the Time Machine Project and how local Time
    Machine instances can help us expand our understanding of the social,
    environmental and economic history of the city.
content-type: training-module
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/0195cc28-a1d0-747e-9425-ae0e52da6248
---
As part of DARIAH's ongoing In-House Webinar series, the 'Friday Frontiers', Melvin Wevers (University of Amsterdam) and Iason Jongepier (University of Antwerp) gave us an insight into the Time Machine Project and how local Time Machine projects have brought new understanding to the social, environmental and economic history of Amsterdam and Antwerp.

In this screencast, viewers will learn about the Time Machine Project structure, and how visualisations of cultural heritage such as these can deepen an understanding of local history.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="pM33gxkUYyA" startTime={206} title="Click to view" subtitle="The Time Machine Project" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/the-time-machine-project/friday-frontiers.png" />
