contents/events/RSETraining2019/about.mdx, before:

# About

## [Partners](https://datacite.hypotheses.org/partners)

'MaDiH: Research Software Engineering (RSE) Training workshop inaugurated Phase
1 of
[Mapping the Digital Heritage in Jordan project](https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FS011722%2F1)
(MaDiH)'. This event was held with the guidance of:

- [Dr Andrea Zerbini](https://eamena.arch.ox.ac.uk/team/dr-andrea-zerbini/)

## Participants

- **Dr Fadi Bala'awi**, MaDiH Project PI, Dean of Queen Rania Faculty of Tourism
  and Heritage, Hashemite University, Jordan
- **Arianna Ciula**, Senior Research Software Analyst and Deputy Director,
  King's Digital Lab, King's College London, UK
- **Dr Stuart Dunn**, Head of Department of Digital Humanities, King's College
  London, UK
- **Dr Alessandra Esposito**, MaDiH Project Research Associate, King's Digital
  Lab, King's College London, UK
- **Dr Adrian Evans**, MaDiH Consultant, Research Fellow, School of
  Archaeological and Forensic Sciences, University of Bradford, UK
- **Dr Pascal Flohr**, Researcher on the Endangered Archaeology in the Middle
  East and North Africa (EAMENA) project, Oxford University, UK
- **Sahar Idwan**, Dean of Information Technology, Hashemite University, Jordan
- **Neil Jakeman**, Senior Research Software Analyst, King's Digital Lab, King's
  College London, UK
- **Samia Khouri**, Department of Antiquities, Director of Museums, Jordan
- **Issa Mahasneh**, Executive Director of the Jordanian Open Source
  Association, Jordan
- **Shatha Mubaideen**, MaDiH Project Manager, University of Jordan, Jordan
- **Dominic Oldman**, Head of ResearchSpace, The British Museum, UK
- **Dr Carol Palmer**, Director of the Council for British Research in the
  Levant (CBRL), UK
- **Professor Shaher Rababeh**, MaDiH Project Co-I, Vice President, Hashemite
  University, Jordan
- **Raya Sharbain**, Jordan Open Source Association, Jordan
- **Dr James Smithies**, MaDiH Project PI, Director, King's Digital Lab, King's
  College London, UK
- **Tom Sparrow**, Research Fellow, School of Archaeological and Forensic
  Sciences, University of Bradford, UK
- **Diana Tanase**, Senior Curator of ResearchSpace, The British Museum, UK
- **Dr Will Wootton**, Senior Lecturer, Department of Classics, King's College
  London

## Coordination

**Arianna Ciula**, King's Digital Lab, King's College London, UK

## Companion blog

[https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/madih-research-software-engineering-rse-training-london/)

## Contact

Arianna Ciula, King's Digital Lab: arianna.ciula[AT]kcl[DOT]ac[DOT]uk

Commit message:

moved bibliography to about popup

contents/events/RSETraining2019/about.mdx, after:

# About

## [Partners](https://datacite.hypotheses.org/partners)

'MaDiH: Research Software Engineering (RSE) Training workshop inaugurated Phase
1 of
[Mapping the Digital Heritage in Jordan project](https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FS011722%2F1)
(MaDiH)'. This event was held with the guidance of:

- [Dr Andrea Zerbini](https://eamena.arch.ox.ac.uk/team/dr-andrea-zerbini/)

## Participants

- **Dr Fadi Bala'awi**, MaDiH Project PI, Dean of Queen Rania Faculty of Tourism
  and Heritage, Hashemite University, Jordan
- **Arianna Ciula**, Senior Research Software Analyst and Deputy Director,
  King's Digital Lab, King's College London, UK
- **Dr Stuart Dunn**, Head of Department of Digital Humanities, King's College
  London, UK
- **Dr Alessandra Esposito**, MaDiH Project Research Associate, King's Digital
  Lab, King's College London, UK
- **Dr Adrian Evans**, MaDiH Consultant, Research Fellow, School of
  Archaeological and Forensic Sciences, University of Bradford, UK
- **Dr Pascal Flohr**, Researcher on the Endangered Archaeology in the Middle
  East and North Africa (EAMENA) project, Oxford University, UK
- **Sahar Idwan**, Dean of Information Technology, Hashemite University, Jordan
- **Neil Jakeman**, Senior Research Software Analyst, King's Digital Lab, King's
  College London, UK
- **Samia Khouri**, Department of Antiquities, Director of Museums, Jordan
- **Issa Mahasneh**, Executive Director of the Jordanian Open Source
  Association, Jordan
- **Shatha Mubaideen**, MaDiH Project Manager, University of Jordan, Jordan
- **Dominic Oldman**, Head of ResearchSpace, The British Museum, UK
- **Dr Carol Palmer**, Director of the Council for British Research in the
  Levant (CBRL), UK
- **Professor Shaher Rababeh**, MaDiH Project Co-I, Vice President, Hashemite
  University, Jordan
- **Raya Sharbain**, Jordan Open Source Association, Jordan
- **Dr James Smithies**, MaDiH Project PI, Director, King's Digital Lab, King's
  College London, UK
- **Tom Sparrow**, Research Fellow, School of Archaeological and Forensic
  Sciences, University of Bradford, UK
- **Diana Tanase**, Senior Curator of ResearchSpace, The British Museum, UK
- **Dr Will Wootton**, Senior Lecturer, Department of Classics, King's College
  London

## Coordination

**Arianna Ciula**, King's Digital Lab, King's College London, UK

## Companion blog

[https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/madih-research-software-engineering-rse-training-london/)

## Bibliography

The complete list of websites and publications mentioned in the sessions' slides
can be found in
[KDL RSE Training 2019 Zotero Bibliography](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2345477/kdl_rse_training/library).

## Contact

Arianna Ciula, King's Digital Lab: arianna.ciula[AT]kcl[DOT]ac[DOT]uk
