contents/events/RSETraining2019/session09.mdx, before:

---
number: 9
title: Research Infrastructures
speakers:
  - arianna-ciula
  - james-smithies

synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Day Four "Research Infrastructures Landscape and MaDiH Future", Session Two

## Abstract

_Best practices in design and development of Research Infrastructures_

This session covered a number of topics in best practices of design and development of Research Infrastructures with a particular focus on Research Data Management (RDM).

It started with an outline of the “Open Access Chain” (Open standards – Open data – Open source – Open licenses – Open access), drawing on opportunities and challenges an open approach to data presents in an RSE context. One of the key challenges is a necessity for a rigorous SDLC process  and adoption of common standards.

Responding to the needs of data-intensive research and machine-actionability, FORCE11 coalition developed FAIR data principles that specify a set of requirements for data and metadata: data should be findabile, accessible, interoperable and reusable. To facilitate transition to FAIR data, Go-FAIR initiative developed a workflow (“FAIRification process”) that guides researchers from retrieval of non-FAIR data to deployment of FAIR data resources.

In the session, the place of RDM in the software development lifecycle at KDL was discussed. The nature of Agile projects that KDL often works with, however, means that in many cases the project begins before any data is collected or data collection continues throughout evolutionary development requiring monitoring methods and forward planning to be in place and exercised throughout the SDLC.

With proliferation of data, questions of privacy are more and more pressing. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became directly applicable in all EU states on 25 May 2018 and requires informed consent to process personal data. The history of the regulation and its implications, both legal and ethical, for DH projects were discussed.

The final topic of discussion in the session were challenges related to software sustainability and citation. On the one hand, there is a need for openness and reusability, on the other, a requirement for appropriate citation and giving credit to contributors to every stage of the project. In order to ensure adequate recording of the project at every stage of development, issues of Versioning, Sharing, Documentation, Licensing, Publishing (e.g. via Zenodo) need to be addressed.

<Download download="docs/4.1_Research-Infrastructures.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="arianna-ciula">

[Dr Arianna Ciula](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/dr-arianna-ciula/) is Senior Software Analyst and Deputy Director of King's Digital Lab. Dr Ciula has broad experience in digital humanities research and teaching, research management, and digital research infrastructures. She holds a PhD in Manuscript and Book Studies (digital palaeography, University of Siena), an MA in Applied Computing in the Humanities (King’s College London) and a BA Hons in Communication sciences (computational linguistics, University of Siena). For a list of publications, see Dr Ciula's [Pure page](https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/arianna.ciula.html).

</Speaker>


<Speaker speaker="james-smithies">

[Dr James Smithies](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/dr-james-smithies/) is Director of King’s Digital Lab. He was previously Senior Lecturer in Digital Humanities and Associate Director of the UC CEISMIC Digital Archive at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand. He has worked in the government and commercial IT sectors as a technical writer and editor, business analyst, and project manager. His monograph The Digital Humanities and the Digital Modern was published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2017.

</Speaker>


</Speakers>

Commit message:

More commits
Added last sessions and amended person.yaml.
Need to sort out slides for Day 1 Session 2.

contents/events/RSETraining2019/session09.mdx, after:

---
number: 9
title: Data Sovereignty_
speakers:
  - samantha-callaghan
  - james-smithies

synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Day Four "Research Infrastructures Landscape and MaDiH Future", Session Two

## Abstract

_Data Sovereignty_

The session focused on the concept of indigenous data sovereignty and its application to DH projects that deal with artefacts, data, images and concepts that may be considered sacred, secret or culturally sensitive by certain groups of people. Data sovereignty typically refers to the understanding that data is subject to the laws of the nation in which it is stored, whereas indigenous data sovereignty is a concept that reflects a conviction that data is subject to the laws of the nation from which it was collected (i.e. of the source community). These issues become most poignant when dealing with cultural artefacts from non-Western cultures (such as Māori culture) or looted objects dispersed in Western collections and dissemination of information about them. The tensions between Open Access principles and the requirements of Intellectual Property Rights/Management were highlighted. The session warned against presenting data without context, commercialisation without permission and the use of data to the detriment of communities and advocated respect for and a need for consultation with the communities. The session formulated a set of questions to be considered when envisaging any DH project that may deal with data potentially sensitive for a group or groups of people, stressing the requirement for well-thought-through infrastructures for holding datasets as well as for consistent policies for data management and access.

This session by Samantha Callaghan was presented by Dr James Smithies.

<Download download="docs/4.1_Research-Infrastructures.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="arianna-ciula">

[Samantha Callaghan](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/samantha-callaghan/) Samantha Callaghan is a Research Software Engineering Project Manager as well as the Georgian Papers Programme Metadata Analyst. As an RSE Project Manager, Samantha guides projects through KDL’s Software Development Life Cycle. She also undertakes analysis work, decommissioning documentation and outreach, particularly in relation to Indigenous DH and decolonizing practice in the GLAM sector, for this role..

</Speaker>


<Speaker speaker="james-smithies">

[Dr James Smithies](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/dr-james-smithies/) is Director of King’s Digital Lab. He was previously Senior Lecturer in Digital Humanities and Associate Director of the UC CEISMIC Digital Archive at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand. He has worked in the government and commercial IT sectors as a technical writer and editor, business analyst, and project manager. His monograph The Digital Humanities and the Digital Modern was published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2017.

</Speaker>


</Speakers>
