content/posts/how-to-capture-and-reference-a-webpage-in-your-research-using-zotero/index.mdx, before:

---
title: How to Capture and Reference a Webpage in your Research Using Zotero
lang: en
date: 2022-11-14T14:02:45.978Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - pistol-rachel
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: The need to reference webpages in academic work is growing all the
  time, particularly in the digital humanities. There are many different
  reference management systems that exist to help researchers sort and find
  their sources and the most accessible of these is Zotero.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2019-08-15
  url: https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/zotero
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: r-sEbcciHfXE0ufZfmmPm
---

The need to reference webpages in academic work is growing all the time, particularly in the digital humanities. There are many different reference management systems that exist to help researchers sort and find their sources, and the most accessible of these is Zotero. This short guide will show you how to use Zotero to capture webpages that can then be cited in your work.

If you have not come across Zotero before, it is an open access tool that helps you collect, organise, cite and share research. To download Zotero, go to _[https://www.zotero.org/](https://www.zotero.org/)_

You will need to download both the standalone version as well as the Zotero connector for your web browser (in this example Firefox). There are different Zotero connectors depending on the web browser you are using.

## Learning outcomes

After viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- Understand how Zotero manages publications and other literature for citation in research
- Effectively use Zotero to capture webpages that can then be cited in your work.

<ExternalResource
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Check out How to capture and reference a webpage in your research using Zotero"
  url="https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/zotero"
/>

Commit message:

chore: adding note re interface
Added a markdown 'Note' box to guide people once they get to the resource

Also updated publication date

content/posts/how-to-capture-and-reference-a-webpage-in-your-research-using-zotero/index.mdx, after:

---
title: How to Capture and Reference a Webpage in your Research Using Zotero
lang: en
date: 2022-11-24T14:02:45.978Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - pistol-rachel
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: The need to reference webpages in academic work is growing all the
  time, particularly in the digital humanities. There are many different
  reference management systems that exist to help researchers sort and find
  their sources and the most accessible of these is Zotero.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2019-08-15
  url: https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/zotero
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: r-sEbcciHfXE0ufZfmmPm
---

The need to reference webpages in academic work is growing all the time, particularly in the digital humanities. There are many different reference management systems that exist to help researchers sort and find their sources, and the most accessible of these is Zotero. This short guide will show you how to use Zotero to capture webpages that can then be cited in your work.

If you have not come across Zotero before, it is an open access tool that helps you collect, organise, cite and share research. To download Zotero, go to _[https://www.zotero.org/](https://www.zotero.org/)_

You will need to download both the standalone version as well as the Zotero connector for your web browser (in this example Firefox). There are different Zotero connectors depending on the web browser you are using.

<SideNote type="note">
This training resource is located in the GitHub environment, so please go straight to the text in the 'readme' file.
</SideNote>

## Learning outcomes

After viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- Understand how Zotero manages publications and other literature for citation in research
- Effectively use Zotero to capture webpages that can then be cited in your work.

<ExternalResource
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Check out How to capture and reference a webpage in your research using Zotero"
  url="https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/zotero"
/>
