content/posts/digitization-workflow-talk-with-joana-meier/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Joana Meier, a Digital Humanities
  students perspective"
shortTitle: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Joana Meier, a Digital Humanities
  students perspective"
lang: en
date: 2025-01-16T16:00:35.192Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - haller-jane
  - meier-joana
  - chiquet-vera
editors: []
tags:
  - cultural-heritage
  - data-management
  - design-thinking
  - e-heritage
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: images/final_culture-digital-podcast-covermondrian.jpg
abstract: What does "curating data stories" mean from a technical and academic
  perspective? This podcast from the curiositas5.0 project features a discussion
  between Jane Haller and Joana Meier about experimenting with digital
  exhibitions.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: audio
remote:
  date: 2025-01-16T16:00:41.426Z
  url: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11224008
  publisher: zenodo
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: -2GgO2DK7PkQVA0Xv6x6-
---


As a winning project of the Dariah Theme Call 2022-2024 on Workflows, we evaluated a showcase project called “curiositas5.0”, initiated by the Digitales Schaudepot Association (DSD) intended to assist in planning projects and, above all, avoiding unwanted missteps. To capture voices from the community and provide insight into the different working methods, expertise, and backgrounds of the people collaborating on the curiositas5.0 project, we conducted 3 interviews.

**What does "curating data stories" mean from a technical and academic perspective?**  Jane Haller, a sociologist, digital project manager, and president of the Digitales Schaudepot, is in conversation with Joana Meier. Joana holds a BA in Sociology and English Literature, is a Master's student in Digital Humanities, and works in museum education and digitization.



**Learning outcomes**

After listening to this resource, learners will be able to:

- Gain insight into the digitization process
- Recognise issues in digital project management
- Understand the challenges of digitization projects

  <ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="A Digital Humanities Students Perspective (spotify)" url="https://open.spotify.com/episode/78t8GeaTAAvXepugPszryZ?si=Mix9VYAuQsWHV0pYMSdMRA" />

  <ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Audio on zenodo" url="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11224008" />

Commit message:

Content overhaul
fixing minor issues in metadata
re-working description to more accurately depict content of the podcast

content/posts/digitization-workflow-talk-with-joana-meier/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Joana Meier, a Digital Humanities
  Student's perspective"
shortTitle: "Digitization Workflow: Talk with Joana Meier, a Digital Humanities
  Student's perspective"
lang: en
date: 2025-01-20T15:00:35.192Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - haller-jane
  - meier-joana
  - chiquet-vera
editors: []
tags:
  - cultural-heritage
  - data-management
  - design-thinking
  - e-heritage
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: images/final_culture-digital-podcast-covermondrian.jpg
abstract: What does "curating data stories" mean from a technical and academic
  perspective? This podcast from the curiositas5.0 project features a discussion
  between Jane Haller and Joana Meier about experimenting with digital
  exhibitions.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: audio
remote:
  date: 2025-01-16T16:00:41.426Z
  url: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11224008
  publisher: zenodo
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: -2GgO2DK7PkQVA0Xv6x6-
---

What does "curating data stories" mean from a technical and academic perspective?  In this podcast, produced by virtualculture.ch, sociologist Jane Haller, president of the Digitales Schaudepot, is in conversation with Joana Meier a Master's student in Digital Humanities at [INSERT NAME OF UNVERSITY HERE] working in museum education and digitization.  Throughout their conversation, they discuss the processes of data visualisation, and how digitalization has opened up new research questions.

As a winning project of the DARIAH Thematic Funding Call 2022-2024 on Workflows, we evaluated a showcase project called “curiositas5.0”, initiated by the Digitales Schaudepot Association (DSD) intended to assist in planning projects and, above all, avoiding unwanted missteps. To capture voices from the community and provide insight into the different working methods, expertise, and backgrounds of the people collaborating on the curiositas5.0 project, we conducted 3 interviews which were turned into podcasts for wider broadcast.


## Learning outcomes

After listening to this resource, learners will be able to:

- Gain insight into the digitization process
- Recognise issues in digital project management
- Understand the challenges of digitization projects

  <ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Digitization Worksflow: A Digital Humanities Student's Perspective (Spotify)" url="https://open.spotify.com/episode/78t8GeaTAAvXepugPszryZ?si=Mix9VYAuQsWHV0pYMSdMRA" />
