content/posts/trends-in-computational-lexicography-a-pathfinder-for-developers/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Trends in Computational Lexicography: A Pathfinder for Developers"
lang: en
date: 2022-01-02T14:38:37.079Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - tiberius-carole
  - heylen-kris
tags:
  - lexicography
categories:
  - dariah
  - dariah-pathfinders
abstract: This learning resource will provide an overview of the trending topics
  in computational lexicography ranging from automatic extraction of good
  examples and word-sense disambiguation to machine learning.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: ""
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: true
uuid: VL3saRXgj1b2la911h1yK
---

This learning resource will provide an overview of the trending topics in computational lexicography ranging from automatic extraction of good examples and word-sense disambiguation to machine learning. The course will be aimed at developers who are new to lexicography and who quickly want to familiarize themselves with the most important literature and/or available learning resources which can bring them up to speed in the fast-changing field.

## Learning Outcomes

Upon completion of this course, students/developers will be able to

- assess different tools used in the lexicographic workflow
- compare and evaluate different approaches to automatic extraction of lexicographic data (e.g. headword lists, collocations and example sentences)
- find the most important literature and/or available learning resources in computational lexicography

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "trends-in-computational-lexicography-a-pathfinder-for-developers/index" (#350)
* content(cms): update Resource "trends-in-computational-lexicography-a-pathfinder-for-developers/index"

* content(cms): update Resource "trends-in-computational-lexicography-a-pathfinder-for-developers/index"

content/posts/trends-in-computational-lexicography-a-pathfinder-for-developers/index.mdx, after:

---
title: ELEXIS Pathfinder to Computional Lexicography for Developers and
  Computational Linguists
lang: en
date: 2022-01-02T14:38:37.079Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - tiberius-carole
  - heylen-kris
tags:
  - lexicography
categories:
  - dariah
  - dariah-pathfinders
abstract: This learning resource provides software developers and computational
  linguists with an overview of the typical  computational processing tasks and
  software tools in the lexicographic workflow. The resource introduces the most
  widely used custom developed tools for corpus-based lexicography as well as
  their functionality.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: ""
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: true
uuid: VL3saRXgj1b2la911h1yK
---
This learning resource provides software developers and computational linguists with an overview of the typical  computational processing tasks and software tools in the lexicographic workflow. The resource introduces the most widely used custom developed tools for corpus-based lexicography as well as their functionality. Additionally, we give pointers to trending R&D topics in computational lexicography ranging from automatic extraction of good examples and word-sense disambiguation to machine learning. The course is aimed at developers and computational linguists who are new to lexicography and who quickly want to familiarise themselves with the most important literature and/or available learning resources which can bring them up to speed in the fast-changing field and prepare them to collaborate  in a multidisciplinary team of lexicographers, computational linguists and software developers. 

## Learning Outcomes

Upon completion of this course, students will be able to

- assess different tools used in the lexicographic workflow
- understand the typical functions and custom features of lexicographic tools
- compare and evaluate different approaches to automatic extraction of lexicographic data (e.g. headword lists, collocations and example sentences)
- find the most important literature and/or available learning resources in computational lexicography

## Software development in a lexicographic team

## Overview of tools in the lexicographic workflow

## Typical functions and custom features of lexicographic tools

## Automatic extraction of lexicographically relevant information from corpora 

## Pointers to other resources
