content/pages/imprint/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Legal Notice
---

## Legal Notice

### Address

DARIAH ERIC \
c/o CNRS TGIR Huma-Num \
54 bd Raspail \
75006 Paris \
France

### Web Hosting:

Vercel Inc. [https://vercel.com](https://vercel.com)

### Liability for Contents:

DARIAH ERIC aims at keeping the information on this website timely and accurate. If you encounter any errors, please send us an e-mail to [info@dariah.eu](info@dariah.eu) and we will resolve them as soon as possible.

However, DARIAH ERIC accepts no responsibility or liability whatsoever with regard to the information on this site. The given information is not necessarily comprehensive, complete, accurate or up to date. DARIAH ERIC reserves the right to modify, supplement, or delete any or all of the information offered on this website, or to temporarily or permanently cease publication thereof without prior and separate notification.

### Third Party Links

This website includes links to third party websites. DARIAH ERIC reviews external websites and content before establishing a link. However, DARIAH ERIC has no control over and consequently does not assume any responsibility for external websites and their content. The responsibility for external websites and their content lies exclusively with the respective provider.

## Privacy Notice

### Cookies

To make this site work properly, we may place small data files called cookies on your device.

#### What are cookies?

A cookie is a small text file that a website saves on your computer or mobile device when you visit the site. It enables the website to remember your actions and preferences (such as login, language, font size and other display preferences) over a period of time, so you don’t have to keep re-entering them whenever you come back to the site or browse from one page to another.

We use cookies for the following purposes:

- DARIAH-Campus only uses cookies as part of the Google Analytics on the site to track site use.
  - If you opt out of tracking from Google Analytics (see below), we set a cookie to remember this setting each time you visit our website again.
- Some videos embedded in our pages use a cookie to anonymously gather statistics on how you got there and what videos you visited. Enabling these cookies is not strictly necessary for the website to work but it will provide you with a better browsing experience. You can delete or block these cookies if you prefer. Disabling cookies shouldn’t affect the performance of DARIAH-Campus.

### Google Analytics

DARIAH ERIC uses Google Analytics to keep track of the DARIAH-Campus website performances over time. Every time a user visits our website, web analytics software generates an anonymous analytics cookie which tells us whether or not you have visited the site before. Your browser will tell us if you have these cookies, and if you don’t, we generate new ones. This allows us to track how many individual unique users we have, and how often they visit the site. These cookies cannot be used to identify individuals. They’re used for statistical purposes only.

However, the data generated by these cookies, concerning your use of the site will be sent to Google and stored on servers located in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of assessing your use of the site, compiling reports on website activity for the website operator, and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.

Google may also provide this information to outside parties if legally required to do so or if such parties process this information on Google’s behalf, in particular the site operator. Google will not match your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may deactivate the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser. To provide website visitors the ability to prevent their data from being used by Google Analytics, Google has developed the [Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en).

### Control Cookies

You can control and/or delete cookies as you wish – for details, see [aboutcookies.org](http://aboutcookies.org/). You can delete all cookies that are already on your computer and you can set most browsers to prevent them from being placed. If you do this, however, you may have to manually adjust some preferences every time you visit a site and some services and functionalities may not work.

Commit message:

feat: add button to opt-out of analytics to privacy policy page (#215)
* feat: add button to opt-out of analytics to privacy policy page

* Update src/analytics/ConsentBanner.tsx

* fix: fix type

content/pages/imprint/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Legal Notice
---

## Legal Notice

### Address

DARIAH ERIC \
c/o CNRS TGIR Huma-Num \
54 bd Raspail \
75006 Paris \
France

### Web Hosting:

Vercel Inc. [https://vercel.com](https://vercel.com)

### Liability for Contents:

DARIAH ERIC aims at keeping the information on this website timely and accurate. If you encounter any errors, please send us an e-mail to [info@dariah.eu](info@dariah.eu) and we will resolve them as soon as possible.

However, DARIAH ERIC accepts no responsibility or liability whatsoever with regard to the information on this site. The given information is not necessarily comprehensive, complete, accurate or up to date. DARIAH ERIC reserves the right to modify, supplement, or delete any or all of the information offered on this website, or to temporarily or permanently cease publication thereof without prior and separate notification.

### Third Party Links

This website includes links to third party websites. DARIAH ERIC reviews external websites and content before establishing a link. However, DARIAH ERIC has no control over and consequently does not assume any responsibility for external websites and their content. The responsibility for external websites and their content lies exclusively with the respective provider.

## Privacy Notice

### Cookies

To make this site work properly, we may place small data files called cookies on your device.

#### What are cookies?

A cookie is a small text file that a website saves on your computer or mobile device when you visit the site. It enables the website to remember your actions and preferences (such as login, language, font size and other display preferences) over a period of time, so you don’t have to keep re-entering them whenever you come back to the site or browse from one page to another.

We use cookies for the following purposes:

- DARIAH-Campus only uses cookies as part of the Google Analytics on the site to track site use.
  - If you opt out of tracking from Google Analytics (see below), we set a cookie to remember this setting each time you visit our website again.
- Some videos embedded in our pages use a cookie to anonymously gather statistics on how you got there and what videos you visited. Enabling these cookies is not strictly necessary for the website to work but it will provide you with a better browsing experience. You can delete or block these cookies if you prefer. Disabling cookies shouldn’t affect the performance of DARIAH-Campus.

### Google Analytics

DARIAH ERIC uses Google Analytics to keep track of the DARIAH-Campus website performances over time. Every time a user visits our website, web analytics software generates an anonymous analytics cookie which tells us whether or not you have visited the site before. Your browser will tell us if you have these cookies, and if you don’t, we generate new ones. This allows us to track how many individual unique users we have, and how often they visit the site. These cookies cannot be used to identify individuals. They’re used for statistical purposes only.

However, the data generated by these cookies, concerning your use of the site will be sent to Google and stored on servers located in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of assessing your use of the site, compiling reports on website activity for the website operator, and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.

Google may also provide this information to outside parties if legally required to do so or if such parties process this information on Google’s behalf, in particular the site operator. Google will not match your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may deactivate the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser. To provide website visitors the ability to prevent their data from being used by Google Analytics, Google has developed the [Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en).

If you have previously accepted the use of Google Analytics on this website, you can <OptOutButton aria-label="opt out of Google Analytics">opt out by clicking here</OptOutButton>.

### Control Cookies

You can control and/or delete cookies as you wish – for details, see [aboutcookies.org](http://aboutcookies.org/). You can delete all cookies that are already on your computer and you can set most browsers to prevent them from being placed. If you do this, however, you may have to manually adjust some preferences every time you visit a site and some services and functionalities may not work.
