content/en/resources/hosted/curating-the-digital-storytelling-exhibition-at-the-british-library/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Curating the Digital Storytelling exhibition at the British Library
locale: en
publication-date: 2023-11-01
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - wisdom-stella
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - augmented-reality
  - e-heritage
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Curating the Digital Storytelling exhibition at the British Library
  content: "In this presentation as part of Friday Frontiers, British Library
    Digital Curator Stella Wisdom discusses the challenges and surprises
    encountered in the process of curating the 'Digital Storytelling'
    exhibition: a physical exhibition using entirely digital resources."
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-134d-707c-9dae-912ace95a536
---
Evolving technologies have changed how writers write, and readers read. Stella Wisdom talks through the process of curating the British Library's Digital Storytelling exhibition. From thought provoking autobiographical hypertexts to data journalism, uncanny ghost stories to weather poetry, steampunk literary adaptation to Elizabethan medical comedy. Stella discusses a range of born digital works, including interactive narratives that respond to user input, reading experiences personalised by data feeds, and immersive multimedia story worlds developed through audience participation.

## Learning Outcomes

After watching this video, learners will:

* understand some of the key concepts in digital storytelling
* appreciate the challenges involved in bringing digital resources to a physical exhibition space
* be able to point to examples of digital storytelling

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="Jox-eWVMF2I" title="Curating the Digital Storytelling exhibition at the British Library" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/curating-the-digital-storytelling-exhibition-at-the-british-library/stella-wisdom-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/curating-the-digital-storytelling-exhibition-at-the-british-library/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Curating the Digital Storytelling exhibition at the British Library
locale: en
publication-date: 2023-11-01
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - wisdom-stella
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - augmented-reality
  - e-heritage
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Curating the Digital Storytelling exhibition at the British Library
  content: >-
    In this presentation as part of Friday Frontiers, British Library Digital
    Curator Stella Wisdom discusses the challenges and surprises encountered in
    the process of curating the 'Digital Storytelling' exhibition: a physical
    exhibition using entirely digital resources.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-134d-707c-9dae-912ace95a536
---
Evolving technologies have changed how writers write, and readers read. Stella Wisdom talks through the process of curating the British Library's Digital Storytelling exhibition. From thought provoking autobiographical hypertexts to data journalism, uncanny ghost stories to weather poetry, steampunk literary adaptation to Elizabethan medical comedy. Stella discusses a range of born digital works, including interactive narratives that respond to user input, reading experiences personalised by data feeds, and immersive multimedia story worlds developed through audience participation.

## Learning Outcomes

After watching this video, learners will:

* understand some of the key concepts in digital storytelling
* appreciate the challenges involved in bringing digital resources to a physical exhibition space
* be able to point to examples of digital storytelling

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="Jox-eWVMF2I" title="Curating the Digital Storytelling exhibition at the British Library" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/curating-the-digital-storytelling-exhibition-at-the-british-library/stella-wisdom-thumbnail.png" />
