content/posts/how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/index.mdx, before:

---
title: How to share your research using Social Media
shortTitle: How to share your research using Social Media
lang: en
date: 2022-04-06T16:55:39.494Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - nicholson-bob
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
tags:
  - citizen-science
  - e-heritage
  - digital-archives
categories:
  - dariah
abstract: Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and
  Facebook can be great places for academics to share their research and reach
  new audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson (Edge Hill University, UK) will
  demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: webinar-recording
remote:
  date: 2022-04-06T17:05:04.903Z
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: ZO7O03HWFCTUp9XMTaBQH
---
Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and Facebook can be great places for academics to share their research and reach new audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson will demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter. You’ll learn how to write engaging posts, tell a story using threads, and avoid common pitfalls that often prevent academic research from being shared. 

Bob Nicholson is a historian of Victorian popular culture based at Edge Hill University. His research-based social media accounts (@DigiVictorian / @VictorianHumour) are followed by over 50,000 people and have been featured by BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 3, The Times, The Guardian, Daily Mail, and Smithsonian Magazine. 

This webinar took place as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers Autumn 2021 series



## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should:

- Understand how to communicate the key messages of your research
- Recognise the benefits of using Social Media to enhance your research practice, and impact
- Understand the pitfalls of Social Media, and how best to avoid or overcome them

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="zEqslcXqT5k" title="How to share your research using social media" subtitle="Click here to view" image="images/bob-nicholson-thumbnail-image.png" />

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/index" (#433)
Automatically generated. Merged on Netlify CMS.

content/posts/how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/index.mdx, after:

---
title: How to share your research using Social Media
shortTitle: How to share your research using Social Media
lang: en
date: 2022-04-06T16:55:39.494Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - nicholson-bob
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
tags:
  - citizen-science
  - e-heritage
  - digital-archives
categories:
  - dariah
abstract: Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and
  Facebook can be great places for academics to share their research and reach
  new audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson (Edge Hill University, UK) will
  demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: webinar-recording
remote:
  date: 2022-04-06T17:05:04.903Z
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: ZO7O03HWFCTUp9XMTaBQH
---
Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and Facebook can be great places for academics to share their research and reach new audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson will demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter. You’ll learn how to write engaging posts, tell a story using threads, and avoid common pitfalls that often prevent academic research from being shared. 

Bob Nicholson is a historian of Victorian popular culture based at Edge Hill University. His research-based social media accounts (@DigiVictorian / @VictorianHumour) are followed by over 50,000 people and have been featured by BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 3, The Times, The Guardian, Daily Mail, and Smithsonian Magazine. 

This webinar took place as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers Autumn 2021 series

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should:

- Understand how to communicate the key messages of your research
- Recognise the benefits of using Social Media to enhance your research practice, and impact
- Understand the pitfalls of Social Media, and how best to avoid or overcome them

<SideNote type="tip" title="Links to items mentioned during the presentation">
_(accurate at time of publication - 6th April 2022)_

- [@DigiVictorian (twitter)](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian)
- [@VictorianHumour (twitter)](https://twitter.com/VictorianHumour)
- [@VictorianHumour (Facebook)](https://www.facebook.com/VictorianHumour)
- [@EHUNineteen](https://twitter.com/EHUNineteen) 
- Recent live-tweeting of research: [The Modern Man](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1461656706862260225)
- @VictorianHumour [thread on obscene jokes 18thC jokes](https://twitter.com/VictorianHumour/status/1281988894536413184?s=20)
- Follow-up [article for History Today on comic taste](https://www.historytoday.com/archive/history-matters/did-you-hear-one)
- Viral twitter thread about [inaccurate newspaper props in period dramas](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/934543116304035840?s=20)
- Follow-up [article in The Times (paywall)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/historian-bob-nicholson-tears-strip-off-makers-of-dickens-biopic-the-man-who-invented-christmas-starring-dan-stevens-over-size-of-newspaper-headlines-cvnvngcg5)
- Viral twitter thread about [Victorian visions of the 1980s](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1078416956401860610?s=20)
- Follow-up articles in [The i](https://inews.co.uk/culture/victorians-predicted-brexit-internet-and-the-pot-noodle-1888-magazine-reveals-240711)  and [The Times](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/for-every-telectroscope-there-s-a-protein-pill-nkszvrglp) (paywall)
- @DigiVictorian [thread about Victorian parlour games](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1048594464376324096?s=20).
- @DigiVictorian tweet: [‘Thrashed by a Lady Cyclist’](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/487543691352219648?s=20)
- @DigiVictorian [thread of Victorian women attacking male harassers](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1297324669318692865?s=20)
- @DigiVictorian [thread about Victorian spinsters](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/964842367508516864?s=20)
- Follow up articles in [Stylist](https://www.stylist.co.uk/life/why-am-i-a-spinster-victorian-women-hilarious-feminist-answers/265102) and [Daily Mail](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-9270079/How-Victorian-spinsters-took-aim-gentlemen-day-happily-SINGLE.html)
- [@TheMERL](https://twitter.com/TheMERL) (twitter)
- @TheMERL tweet: [‘Look at this absolute unit’](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/983341970318938112?s=20)
- @TheMERL [thread about their archives (and a chicken in trousers)](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/1048541160271237120?s=20)
- @TheMERL [thread about a bat in their store room](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/1099661508852752390?s=20)
- [Interview with @TheMERL’s former social media manager (paywal)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/big-thinking-museum-of-english-rural-life-finds-the-secret-of-success-is-a-huge-exmoor-horn-sheep-6tvrml6sr)
- [@WhoresOfYore](https://twitter.com/WhoresofYore)
- [@PulpLibrarian](https://twitter.com/PulpLibrarian)
</SideNote>

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="zEqslcXqT5k" title="How to share your research using social media" subtitle="Click here to view" image="images/bob-nicholson-thumbnail-image.png" />
