content/en/resources/hosted/bridging-the-sensory-gaps-innovations-for-inclusivity/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Bridging the Sensory Gaps - Innovations for Inclusivity
locale: en
publication-date: 2024-01-10
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - olson-nasrine
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - open-access
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Bridging the Sensory Gaps
  content: How would you as a person with deafblindness navigate the world – a
    world filled with navigation and mobility challenges, inaccessible
    information, and technologies that rely on the senses of sight and hearing?
    In this talk, Nasrine Olson (PhD, Associate Professor) introduces the idea
    behind the formation of the Centre for Inclusive Studies at University of
    Borås and presents a few projects that have explored ways in which
    technology can be leveraged to level the playing field.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-111f-714b-a99f-ddaf17f8a742
---
With around 15% of the global population experiencing some form of disability, have we truly considered what 'inclusion' and 'equal opportunity' means for all?  This talk confronts the reality that most spaces, technologies, and innovations are predominantly designed for individuals with all senses and functionalities intact.  How would you as a person with deafblindness navigate the world – a world filled with navigation and mobility challenges, inaccessible information, and technologies that rely on the senses of sight and hearing?  In this talk, Nasrine Olson (PhD, Associate Professor) introduces the idea behind the formation of the Centre for Inclusive Studies at University of Borås and presents a few projects that have explored ways in which technology can be leveraged to level the playing field.

### About the Speaker

Nasrine Olson is an Associate Professor in the field of Library and Information Science at SSLIS, University of Borås, Sweden. Core research interests relate to issues of power and the relationships in day-to-day action, and broader societal structures. In more recent years her focus has been on the societal implication of ICTs and information practices that enable or hinder the potential for equal opportunity for all. She has also been instrumental in creating research environments that promote, and lead to, improved inclusive technologies and environments by coordinating projects such as EU-funded projects [MuseIT](https://www.muse-it.eu/) (2022-2025) and [SUITCEYES](https://suitceyes.eu/) (2018-2021). Nasrine is also the director of an interdisciplinary research centre called [INCLUDE](https://www.hb.se/en/research/research-portal/centres/include--centre-for-inclusive-studies/) – Centre for Inclusive Studies, where through critical examination the ideology of normal, the unequal treatments of societal members is explored.

### C﻿redits

**P﻿resentation** - Associate Professor Nasrine Olsen\
**Chairing and Editing** - Dr. Vicky Garnett\
**Video Subtitles** - Áine Foley

## L﻿earning Outcomes

A﻿fter watching this video, learners will be able to:

* u﻿nderstand some instances where able-bodied privilege can pose unintended challenges for those with visual and/or hearing impairments
* r﻿ecognise the challenges faced by those with visual and/or hearing impairments when accessing digital data or online tools and platforms
* i﻿mplement actions that can reduce or eradicate barriers to access in the Humanities for people with visual and/or hearing impairments.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="WpJW3ojBhCU" title="Bridging the Sensory Gaps" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/bridging-the-sensory-gaps-innovations-for-inclusivity/nasrine-olson-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/bridging-the-sensory-gaps-innovations-for-inclusivity/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Bridging the Sensory Gaps - Innovations for Inclusivity
locale: en
publication-date: 2024-01-10
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - olson-nasrine
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - open-access
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Bridging the Sensory Gaps
  content: >-
    How would you as a person with deafblindness navigate the world – a world
    filled with navigation and mobility challenges, inaccessible information,
    and technologies that rely on the senses of sight and hearing? In this talk,
    Nasrine Olson (PhD, Associate Professor) introduces the idea behind the
    formation of the Centre for Inclusive Studies at University of Borås and
    presents a few projects that have explored ways in which technology can be
    leveraged to level the playing field.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-111f-714b-a99f-ddaf17f8a742
---
With around 15% of the global population experiencing some form of disability, have we truly considered what 'inclusion' and 'equal opportunity' means for all?  This talk confronts the reality that most spaces, technologies, and innovations are predominantly designed for individuals with all senses and functionalities intact.  How would you as a person with deafblindness navigate the world – a world filled with navigation and mobility challenges, inaccessible information, and technologies that rely on the senses of sight and hearing?  In this talk, Nasrine Olson (PhD, Associate Professor) introduces the idea behind the formation of the Centre for Inclusive Studies at University of Borås and presents a few projects that have explored ways in which technology can be leveraged to level the playing field.

### About the Speaker

Nasrine Olson is an Associate Professor in the field of Library and Information Science at SSLIS, University of Borås, Sweden. Core research interests relate to issues of power and the relationships in day-to-day action, and broader societal structures. In more recent years her focus has been on the societal implication of ICTs and information practices that enable or hinder the potential for equal opportunity for all. She has also been instrumental in creating research environments that promote, and lead to, improved inclusive technologies and environments by coordinating projects such as EU-funded projects [MuseIT](https://www.muse-it.eu/) (2022-2025) and [SUITCEYES](https://suitceyes.eu/) (2018-2021). Nasrine is also the director of an interdisciplinary research centre called [INCLUDE](https://www.hb.se/en/research/research-portal/centres/include--centre-for-inclusive-studies/) – Centre for Inclusive Studies, where through critical examination the ideology of normal, the unequal treatments of societal members is explored.

### C﻿redits

**P﻿resentation** - Associate Professor Nasrine Olsen\
**Chairing and Editing** - Dr. Vicky Garnett\
**Video Subtitles** - Áine Foley

## L﻿earning Outcomes

A﻿fter watching this video, learners will be able to:

* u﻿nderstand some instances where able-bodied privilege can pose unintended challenges for those with visual and/or hearing impairments
* r﻿ecognise the challenges faced by those with visual and/or hearing impairments when accessing digital data or online tools and platforms
* i﻿mplement actions that can reduce or eradicate barriers to access in the Humanities for people with visual and/or hearing impairments.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="WpJW3ojBhCU" title="Bridging the Sensory Gaps" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/bridging-the-sensory-gaps-innovations-for-inclusivity/nasrine-olson-thumbnail.png" />
