content/en/resources/hosted/mapping-science-in-immersive-architectures/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Mapping Science in Immersive Architectures
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-11-29
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - rodighiero-dario
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-visualisation
  - computational-imaging
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Mapping Science in Immersive Architectures
  content: In this webinar from Friday Frontiers, Dario Rodighiero (University of
    Groningen) discusses visualisation and representation of scholarly
    knowledge.  This presentation brings science mapping back to its original
    meaning by widening its context to arts and humanities with the help of
    design.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1edc-727b-ad4e-62f985ea08d2
---
Although the mapping of science is broadly interested in representing scholarly knowledge, its use is often related to bibliometric techniques such as citation analysis. This presentation brings back the science mapping to its original meaning by widening its context to arts and humanities with the help of design. By refocusing the final user to scientists themselves and the general public looking at science, the audience is conducted through a series of data visualisations that present scholarly knowledge through immersive architectures in digital and public spaces. In a study related to experimental museology, the idea is to take out science from the laboratory and make its structure and dynamics visible again for all of us.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, learners will:

* Understand the principles of science mapping and visualisation
* Appreciate techniques used to make data visualisation meaningful to non-experts

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="1pqhYoYfZC0" title="Mapping Science in Immersive Architectures" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/mapping-science-in-immersive-architectures/dario-rodighiero-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/mapping-science-in-immersive-architectures/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Mapping Science in Immersive Architectures
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-11-29
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - rodighiero-dario
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-visualisation
  - computational-imaging
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Mapping Science in Immersive Architectures
  content: >-
    In this webinar from Friday Frontiers, Dario Rodighiero (University of
    Groningen) discusses visualisation and representation of scholarly
    knowledge.  This presentation brings science mapping back to its original
    meaning by widening its context to arts and humanities with the help of
    design.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1edc-727b-ad4e-62f985ea08d2
---
Although the mapping of science is broadly interested in representing scholarly knowledge, its use is often related to bibliometric techniques such as citation analysis. This presentation brings back the science mapping to its original meaning by widening its context to arts and humanities with the help of design. By refocusing the final user to scientists themselves and the general public looking at science, the audience is conducted through a series of data visualisations that present scholarly knowledge through immersive architectures in digital and public spaces. In a study related to experimental museology, the idea is to take out science from the laboratory and make its structure and dynamics visible again for all of us.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, learners will:

* Understand the principles of science mapping and visualisation
* Appreciate techniques used to make data visualisation meaningful to non-experts

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="1pqhYoYfZC0" title="Mapping Science in Immersive Architectures" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/mapping-science-in-immersive-architectures/dario-rodighiero-thumbnail.png" />
