contents/resources/using-digital-archives-for-historical-research/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Digital Archives for Historical Research
date: 2021-02-23
authors:
  - digital-repositry-of-ireland
categories:
  - parthenos
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - open-access
  - training-education
abstract:
  This video recording is of 'Using Digital Archives for Historical Research',
  the first webinar in a three-part public lecture series hosted by the Digital
  Repository of Ireland (DRI) aimed at early career researchers. The webinar
  showcases the rich research resources contained in digital archival
  collections that can be used to advance historical research.
type: webinar recording
contributors:
  - ciarán-wallace
  - siobhán-doyle
  - tara-doyle
  - stephanie-rousseau
  - kevin-long
remoteUrl: https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.r4958772q
remotePublicationDate: 2021-02-23
---

This recording is of ‘Using Digital Archives for Historical Research’, the first
webinar in a three-part public lecture series on using digital archives for
academic research hosted by the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI) and aimed
primarily at early career researchers.

Access to brick-and-mortar archives has been limited due to COVID-19
restrictions, creating challenges for humanities researchers that rely on
archival materials for their research. This webinar aims to showcase some of the
rich research resources contained in digital archival collections.

Featured digital collections in the first webinar include:

- Beyond 2022: This archival initiative aims to restore – as far as possible –
  the collections lost in the destruction of the Public Record Office of Ireland
  in 1922, at the outbreak of the Irish Civil War.
- The Inspiring Ireland Project - National Museum of Ireland: This collection
  contains a selection of cultural heritage objects from the National Museum of
  Ireland presented as part of the Inspiring Ireland project, which features a
  series of exhibitions containing cultural artefacts related to the events
  of 1916.
- Bureau of Military History (1913-1921): The Bureau of Military History
  Collection, 1913-1921 (BMH) is a collection of 1,773 witness statements; 334
  sets of contemporary documents; 42 sets of photographs, and 13 voice
  recordings that were collected by the State between 1947 and 1957, in order to
  gather primary source material for the revolutionary period in Ireland from
  1913 to 1921.
- Dublin City Library and Archive (DCLA), Fáilte Ireland Tourism Photographic
  Collection and Jacob's Biscuit Factory Archive: These collections, spanning
  from the 1890s to the early 2000s, comprise almost 20,00 images between them
  and growing.

After watching this webinar, early career researchers will be familiar with some
of the digital archival collections that can be explored to advance historical
research.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Using Digital Archives for Historical Research"
  url="https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.r4958772q"
/>

Commit message:

DRI updates for DARIAH-Campus
Minor updates to match DARIAH-Campus house style

Please note:
Change of DRI slug in person.yaml - this is now 'dri'
When adding new people to person.yaml, make sure they are incorporated into the alphabetical order
metadata field 'categories' should be given as 'dariah', not 'parthenos'
metadata field 'type' should be given as 'video'
Heading 'Learning Outcomes' added before final paragraph

Ideally, the CTA should be a video card with an image, if you have one to add :)

contents/resources/using-digital-archives-for-historical-research/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Digital Archives for Historical Research
date: 2021-06-04
authors:
  - dri
categories:
  - dariah
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - open-access
  - training-education
abstract:
  This video recording is of 'Using Digital Archives for Historical Research',
  the first webinar in a three-part public lecture series hosted by the Digital
  Repository of Ireland (DRI) aimed at early career researchers. The webinar
  showcases the rich research resources contained in digital archival
  collections that can be used to advance historical research.
type: video
contributors:
  - ciarán-wallace
  - siobhán-doyle
  - tara-doyle
  - stephanie-rousseau
  - kevin-long
remoteUrl: https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.r4958772q
remotePublicationDate: 2021-02-23
---

This video is of ‘Using Digital Archives for Historical Research’, the **first**
webinar in a three-part public lecture series on using digital archives for
academic research hosted by the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI) and aimed
primarily at early career researchers.

Access to brick-and-mortar archives has been limited due to COVID-19
restrictions, creating challenges for humanities researchers that rely on
archival materials for their research. This webinar aims to showcase some of the
rich research resources contained in digital archival collections.

Featured digital collections in the first webinar include:

- Beyond 2022: This archival initiative aims to restore – as far as possible –
  the collections lost in the destruction of the Public Record Office of Ireland
  in 1922, at the outbreak of the Irish Civil War.

- The Inspiring Ireland Project - National Museum of Ireland: This collection
  contains a selection of cultural heritage objects from the National Museum of
  Ireland presented as part of the Inspiring Ireland project, which features a
  series of exhibitions containing cultural artefacts related to the events
  of 1916.

- Bureau of Military History (1913-1921): The Bureau of Military History
  Collection, 1913-1921 (BMH) is a collection of 1,773 witness statements; 334
  sets of contemporary documents; 42 sets of photographs, and 13 voice
  recordings that were collected by the State between 1947 and 1957, in order to
  gather primary source material for the revolutionary period in Ireland from
  1913 to 1921.

- Dublin City Library and Archive (DCLA), Fáilte Ireland Tourism Photographic
  Collection and Jacob's Biscuit Factory Archive: These collections, spanning
  from the 1890s to the early 2000s, comprise almost 20,00 images between them
  and growing.

## Learning Outcomes

After watching this webinar, early career researchers will be familiar with some
of the digital archival collections that can be explored to advance historical
research.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Using Digital Archives for Historical Research"
  url="https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.r4958772q"
/>
