content/en/resources/hosted/flipped-classrooms/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Flipped Classrooms
locale: en
publication-date: 2021-03-15
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - johnston-jonny
  - o-connor-kevin
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - training-and-education
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: In this screencast, Dr. Jonny Johnston and Kevin O'Connor from Trinity
    College Dublin (TCD) discuss and demonstrate the 'Flipped Classroom'
    approach to teaching and training, exploring how the use of asynchronous
    methods can open up more in-classroom discussion, and what technologies can
    best support this.
content-type: video
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-175b-748a-af4a-ff262fa6e643
---
As part of the DARIAH-EU In House Webinar series, 'Friday Frontiers', Dr. Jonny Johnston and Kevin O'Connor from Trinity College Dublin (TCD) hosted a webinar focused on 'Flipped Classroom' methodologies in December 2020. Jonny (Academic Practice) and Kevin (IT Services) led a highly interactive session that discussed the theory and practice of the flipped classroom, demonstrating some of the techniques associated with it that can be used to digitally enhance teaching and learning.

**Note:** This video shows extracts from a live presentation that included a lot of interaction among the participants. It has been edited to remove gaps between and during in-webinar exercises and to remove any discussion that took part during the session to ensure participant confidentiality.

## Learning outcomes

By watching this video you should learn:

* What the Flipped Classroom approach entails
* Techniques and methods that can be used in a (flipped) classroom setting

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="b8NaN28eFxY" title="Click to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/flipped-classrooms/flipped-classrooms-title-slide.jpg" subtitle="Flipped Classrooms" />

## Friday Frontiers

The DARIAH In-House Webinar series 'Friday Frontiers' was launched in October 2020 in order to provide an opportunity for the DARIAH community to improve their skills and learn about new and developing techniques and issues within the digital arts and humanities landscape.

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/flipped-classrooms/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Flipped Classrooms
locale: en
publication-date: 2021-03-15
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - johnston-jonny
  - o-connor-kevin
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - training-and-education
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: >-
    In this screencast, Dr. Jonny Johnston and Kevin O'Connor from Trinity
    College Dublin (TCD) discuss and demonstrate the 'Flipped Classroom'
    approach to teaching and training, exploring how the use of asynchronous
    methods can open up more in-classroom discussion, and what technologies can
    best support this.
content-type: video
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-175b-748a-af4a-ff262fa6e643
---
As part of the DARIAH-EU In House Webinar series, 'Friday Frontiers', Dr. Jonny Johnston and Kevin O'Connor from Trinity College Dublin (TCD) hosted a webinar focused on 'Flipped Classroom' methodologies in December 2020. Jonny (Academic Practice) and Kevin (IT Services) led a highly interactive session that discussed the theory and practice of the flipped classroom, demonstrating some of the techniques associated with it that can be used to digitally enhance teaching and learning.

**Note:** This video shows extracts from a live presentation that included a lot of interaction among the participants. It has been edited to remove gaps between and during in-webinar exercises and to remove any discussion that took part during the session to ensure participant confidentiality.

## Learning outcomes

By watching this video you should learn:

* What the Flipped Classroom approach entails
* Techniques and methods that can be used in a (flipped) classroom setting

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="b8NaN28eFxY" title="Click to view" subtitle="Flipped Classrooms" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/flipped-classrooms/flipped-classrooms-title-slide.jpg" />

## Friday Frontiers

The DARIAH In-House Webinar series 'Friday Frontiers' was launched in October 2020 in order to provide an opportunity for the DARIAH community to improve their skills and learn about new and developing techniques and issues within the digital arts and humanities landscape.
