content/en/resources/hosted/how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/index.mdx, before:

---
title: How to share your research using Social Media
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-04-06
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - nicholson-bob
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - citizen-science
  - e-heritage
  - digital-archives
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: How to share your research using Social Media
  content: Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and Facebook
    can be great places for academics to share their research and reach new
    audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson (Edge Hill University, UK) will
    demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1a91-723e-8f3b-af33d48014b6
---
Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and Facebook can be great places for academics to share their research and reach new audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson will demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter. You'll learn how to write engaging posts, tell a story using threads, and avoid common pitfalls that often prevent academic research from being shared.

Bob Nicholson is a historian of Victorian popular culture based at Edge Hill University. His research-based social media accounts (@DigiVictorian / @VictorianHumour) are followed by over 50,000 people and have been featured by BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 3, The Times, The Guardian, Daily Mail, and Smithsonian Magazine.

This webinar took place as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers Autumn 2021 series

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should:

* Understand how to communicate the key messages of your research
* Recognise the benefits of using Social Media to enhance your research practice, and impact
* Understand the pitfalls of Social Media, and how best to avoid or overcome them

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="zEqslcXqT5k" title="How to share your research using social media" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/bob-nicholson-thumbnail-image.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

<Callout kind="tip" title="Links to items mentioned during the presentation">
  *(accurate at time of publication - 6th April 2022)*

  * [@DigiVictorian (twitter)](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian)
  * [@VictorianHumour (twitter)](https://twitter.com/VictorianHumour)
  * [@VictorianHumour (Facebook)](https://www.facebook.com/VictorianHumour)
  * [@EHUNineteen](https://twitter.com/EHUNineteen)
  * Recent live-tweeting of research: [The Modern Man](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1461656706862260225)
  * @VictorianHumour [thread on obscene jokes 18thC jokes](https://twitter.com/VictorianHumour/status/1281988894536413184?s=20)
  * Follow-up [article for History Today on comic taste](https://www.historytoday.com/archive/history-matters/did-you-hear-one)
  * Viral twitter thread about [inaccurate newspaper props in period dramas](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/934543116304035840?s=20)
  * Follow-up [article in The Times (paywall)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/historian-bob-nicholson-tears-strip-off-makers-of-dickens-biopic-the-man-who-invented-christmas-starring-dan-stevens-over-size-of-newspaper-headlines-cvnvngcg5)
  * Viral twitter thread about [Victorian visions of the 1980s](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1078416956401860610?s=20)
  * Follow-up articles in [The i](https://inews.co.uk/culture/victorians-predicted-brexit-internet-and-the-pot-noodle-1888-magazine-reveals-240711)  and [The Times](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/for-every-telectroscope-there-s-a-protein-pill-nkszvrglp) (paywall)
  * @DigiVictorian [thread about Victorian parlour games](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1048594464376324096?s=20).
  * @DigiVictorian tweet: ['Thrashed by a Lady Cyclist'](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/487543691352219648?s=20)
  * @DigiVictorian [thread of Victorian women attacking male harassers](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1297324669318692865?s=20)
  * @DigiVictorian [thread about Victorian spinsters](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/964842367508516864?s=20)
  * Follow up articles in [Stylist](https://www.stylist.co.uk/life/why-am-i-a-spinster-victorian-women-hilarious-feminist-answers/265102) and [Daily Mail](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-9270079/How-Victorian-spinsters-took-aim-gentlemen-day-happily-SINGLE.html)
  * [@TheMERL](https://twitter.com/TheMERL) (twitter)
  * @TheMERL tweet: ['Look at this absolute unit'](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/983341970318938112?s=20)
  * @TheMERL [thread about their archives (and a chicken in trousers)](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/1048541160271237120?s=20)
  * @TheMERL [thread about a bat in their store room](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/1099661508852752390?s=20)
  * [Interview with @TheMERL's former social media manager (paywal)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/big-thinking-museum-of-english-rural-life-finds-the-secret-of-success-is-a-huge-exmoor-horn-sheep-6tvrml6sr)
  * [@WhoresOfYore](https://twitter.com/WhoresofYore)
  * [@PulpLibrarian](https://twitter.com/PulpLibrarian)
</Callout>

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/index.mdx, after:

---
title: How to share your research using Social Media
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-04-06
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - nicholson-bob
editors:
  - garnett-vicky
contributors: []
tags:
  - citizen-science
  - e-heritage
  - digital-archives
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: How to share your research using Social Media
  content: >-
    Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and Facebook can
    be great places for academics to share their research and reach new
    audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson (Edge Hill University, UK) will
    demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1a91-723e-8f3b-af33d48014b6
---
Social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, and Facebook can be great places for academics to share their research and reach new audiences. In this video, Dr Bob Nicholson will demonstrate the techniques he uses to share his research on Twitter. You'll learn how to write engaging posts, tell a story using threads, and avoid common pitfalls that often prevent academic research from being shared.

Bob Nicholson is a historian of Victorian popular culture based at Edge Hill University. His research-based social media accounts (@DigiVictorian / @VictorianHumour) are followed by over 50,000 people and have been featured by BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 3, The Times, The Guardian, Daily Mail, and Smithsonian Magazine.

This webinar took place as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers Autumn 2021 series

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should:

* Understand how to communicate the key messages of your research
* Recognise the benefits of using Social Media to enhance your research practice, and impact
* Understand the pitfalls of Social Media, and how best to avoid or overcome them

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="zEqslcXqT5k" title="How to share your research using social media" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/how-to-share-your-research-using-social-media/bob-nicholson-thumbnail-image.png" />

<Callout kind="tip" title="Links to items mentioned during the presentation">
  *(accurate at time of publication - 6th April 2022)*

  * [@DigiVictorian (twitter)](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian)
  * [@VictorianHumour (twitter)](https://twitter.com/VictorianHumour)
  * [@VictorianHumour (Facebook)](https://www.facebook.com/VictorianHumour)
  * [@EHUNineteen](https://twitter.com/EHUNineteen)
  * Recent live-tweeting of research: [The Modern Man](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1461656706862260225)
  * @VictorianHumour [thread on obscene jokes 18thC jokes](https://twitter.com/VictorianHumour/status/1281988894536413184?s=20)
  * Follow-up [article for History Today on comic taste](https://www.historytoday.com/archive/history-matters/did-you-hear-one)
  * Viral twitter thread about [inaccurate newspaper props in period dramas](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/934543116304035840?s=20)
  * Follow-up [article in The Times (paywall)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/historian-bob-nicholson-tears-strip-off-makers-of-dickens-biopic-the-man-who-invented-christmas-starring-dan-stevens-over-size-of-newspaper-headlines-cvnvngcg5)
  * Viral twitter thread about [Victorian visions of the 1980s](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1078416956401860610?s=20)
  * Follow-up articles in [The i](https://inews.co.uk/culture/victorians-predicted-brexit-internet-and-the-pot-noodle-1888-magazine-reveals-240711)  and [The Times](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/for-every-telectroscope-there-s-a-protein-pill-nkszvrglp) (paywall)
  * @DigiVictorian [thread about Victorian parlour games](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1048594464376324096?s=20).
  * @DigiVictorian tweet: ['Thrashed by a Lady Cyclist'](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/487543691352219648?s=20)
  * @DigiVictorian [thread of Victorian women attacking male harassers](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/1297324669318692865?s=20)
  * @DigiVictorian [thread about Victorian spinsters](https://twitter.com/DigiVictorian/status/964842367508516864?s=20)
  * Follow up articles in [Stylist](https://www.stylist.co.uk/life/why-am-i-a-spinster-victorian-women-hilarious-feminist-answers/265102) and [Daily Mail](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-9270079/How-Victorian-spinsters-took-aim-gentlemen-day-happily-SINGLE.html)
  * [@TheMERL](https://twitter.com/TheMERL) (twitter)
  * @TheMERL tweet: ['Look at this absolute unit'](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/983341970318938112?s=20)
  * @TheMERL [thread about their archives (and a chicken in trousers)](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/1048541160271237120?s=20)
  * @TheMERL [thread about a bat in their store room](https://twitter.com/TheMERL/status/1099661508852752390?s=20)
  * [Interview with @TheMERL's former social media manager (paywal)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/big-thinking-museum-of-english-rural-life-finds-the-secret-of-success-is-a-huge-exmoor-horn-sheep-6tvrml6sr)
  * [@WhoresOfYore](https://twitter.com/WhoresofYore)
  * [@PulpLibrarian](https://twitter.com/PulpLibrarian)
</Callout>
