contents/resources/using-digital-archives-for-social-sciences-research/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences Research
date: 2021-04-20
authors:
  - digital-repositry-of-ireland
categories:
  - parthenos
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - open-access
  - training-education
abstract:
  This video recording is of 'Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences
  Research', the final webinar in a three-part public lecture series hosted by
  the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI), aimed at early career researchers.
  The webinar showcases the rich research resources contained in digital
  archival collections that can be used to advance social sciences research.
type: webinar recording
contributors:
  - aileen-o’carroll
  - david-landy
  - elizabeth-kiely
  - jane-gray
  - maria-ryan
remoteUrl: https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.bg25n363c
remotePublicationDate: 2021-04-20
---

This recording is of ‘Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences Research’, the
final webinar in a three-part public lecture series on using digital archives
for academic research hosted by the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI) and
aimed primarily at early career researchers.

Access to brick-and-mortar archives has been limited due to COVID-19
restrictions, creating challenges for researchers that rely on archival
materials for their research. This webinar aims to showcase some of the rich
research resources contained in digital archival collections.

Featured digital collections in this webinar include:

- ‘Repeal the Eighth and Reproductive Rights’ collection: This collection
  features 25 interviews conducted with Repeal activists from the project
  'Sharing Best Practices in how Civil Society Organisations use the Internet in
  Organising and Building for Socio-Economic Rights and Trust'. This project
  looked at how organisations build trust and resolve conflicts in the age of
  social media. It also explored how digital tools were used to organise and
  build up the Repeal campaign, develop coalitions and connections, and also how
  the campaign dealt with the inevitable conflict that all movements have to
  handle.
- National Library of Ireland (NLI) web archival collections: Two NLI
  collections are featured in the webinar talks. The NLI's General Election 2020
  collection encompasses media sites, commentary, and news websites and covers
  the election campaign, the results, and government formation. At the time of
  recording, NLI was also undertaking ongoing collection work of the Irish
  experience of Covid-19. This collection had over 180 websites archived at the
  time of recording and collecting was expected to continue.
- Irish Women at Work Oral History Project: This is a collection of 42 oral
  history recordings, related transcripts, and artefacts collected as part of a
  feminist research project focused on women’s experiences of work and
  employment between the 1930s and 1960s. The interviews take a life course
  approach, focusing on women’s early family lives, education, entry into and
  experience of the workplace, marriage and motherhood. The narratives provide
  rich historical insights into diverse jobs, workplace practices, and working
  conditions.
- Life Histories and Social Change: This is a large collection of qualitative
  life story interviews with three cohorts of Irish citizens, each of which
  reached adulthood in the crucial decades of the 1950s (an era of
  socio-economic decline), the 1970s (an era of initial 'modernisation') and in
  the 1990s (the 'Celtic Tiger' boom). The research was funded by the Irish
  Research Council and a total of 113 life history interviews were conducted by
  researchers from Maynooth University between 2006 and 2008.
- RESCuE-Ireland collection: This collection was created as part of a
  cross-national European project that aimed to identify the contexts and
  practices associated with household resilience to the financial crisis
  of 2008. The dataset consists of 25 narrative interviews with people living in
  urban and rural settings in an Irish Midlands district.

After watching this webinar, early career researchers will be familiar with some
of the digital archival collections that can be explored to advance social
sciences research, they will have been introduced to many helpful online
research resources, and offered a starting point from which to develop research
methodologies for conducting digital archival research.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences Research"
  url="https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.bg25n363c"
/>

Commit message:

DRI updates for DARIAH-Campus
Minor updates to match DARIAH-Campus house style

Please note:
Change of DRI slug in person.yaml - this is now 'dri'
When adding new people to person.yaml, make sure they are incorporated into the alphabetical order
metadata field 'categories' should be given as 'dariah', not 'parthenos'
metadata field 'type' should be given as 'video'
Heading 'Learning Outcomes' added before final paragraph

Ideally, the CTA should be a video card with an image, if you have one to add :)

contents/resources/using-digital-archives-for-social-sciences-research/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences Research
date: 2021-06-04
authors:
  - dri
categories:
  - dariah
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - open-access
  - training-education
abstract:
  This video recording is of 'Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences
  Research', the third and final webinar in a three-part public lecture series hosted by
  the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI), aimed at early career researchers.
  The webinar showcases the rich research resources contained in digital
  archival collections that can be used to advance social sciences research.
type: video
contributors:
  - aileen-o’carroll
  - david-landy
  - elizabeth-kiely
  - jane-gray
  - maria-ryan
remoteUrl: https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.bg25n363c
remotePublicationDate: 2021-04-20
---

This recording is of ‘Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences Research’, the
**third** and final webinar in a three-part public lecture series on using digital archives
for academic research hosted by the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI) and
aimed primarily at early career researchers.

Access to brick-and-mortar archives has been limited due to COVID-19
restrictions, creating challenges for researchers that rely on archival
materials for their research. This webinar aims to showcase some of the rich
research resources contained in digital archival collections.

Featured digital collections in this webinar include:

- ‘Repeal the Eighth and Reproductive Rights’ collection: This collection
  features 25 interviews conducted with Repeal activists from the project
  'Sharing Best Practices in how Civil Society Organisations use the Internet in
  Organising and Building for Socio-Economic Rights and Trust'. This project
  looked at how organisations build trust and resolve conflicts in the age of
  social media. It also explored how digital tools were used to organise and
  build up the Repeal campaign, develop coalitions and connections, and also how
  the campaign dealt with the inevitable conflict that all movements have to
  handle.

- National Library of Ireland (NLI) web archival collections: Two NLI
  collections are featured in the webinar talks. The NLI's General Election 2020
  collection encompasses media sites, commentary, and news websites and covers
  the election campaign, the results, and government formation. At the time of
  recording, NLI was also undertaking ongoing collection work of the Irish
  experience of Covid-19. This collection had over 180 websites archived at the
  time of recording and collecting was expected to continue.

- Irish Women at Work Oral History Project: This is a collection of 42 oral
  history recordings, related transcripts, and artefacts collected as part of a
  feminist research project focused on women’s experiences of work and
  employment between the 1930s and 1960s. The interviews take a life course
  approach, focusing on women’s early family lives, education, entry into and
  experience of the workplace, marriage and motherhood. The narratives provide
  rich historical insights into diverse jobs, workplace practices, and working
  conditions.

- Life Histories and Social Change: This is a large collection of qualitative
  life story interviews with three cohorts of Irish citizens, each of which
  reached adulthood in the crucial decades of the 1950s (an era of
  socio-economic decline), the 1970s (an era of initial 'modernisation') and in
  the 1990s (the 'Celtic Tiger' boom). The research was funded by the Irish
  Research Council and a total of 113 life history interviews were conducted by
  researchers from Maynooth University between 2006 and 2008.

- RESCuE-Ireland collection: This collection was created as part of a
  cross-national European project that aimed to identify the contexts and
  practices associated with household resilience to the financial crisis
  of 2008. The dataset consists of 25 narrative interviews with people living in
  urban and rural settings in an Irish Midlands district.

#Learning Outcomes

After watching this webinar, early career researchers will be familiar with some
of the digital archival collections that can be explored to advance social
sciences research, they will have been introduced to many helpful online
research resources, and offered a starting point from which to develop research
methodologies for conducting digital archival research.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Using Digital Archives for Social Sciences Research"
  url="https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.bg25n363c"
/>
