content/posts/importing-tables-from-websites-into-spreadsheets/index.mdx, before:

---
title: " Importing tables from websites into spreadsheets"
lang: en
date: 2022-11-14T14:28:45.283Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - pistol-rachel
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: Sometimes it can be useful to take information from a website, such as
  document lists from archives, for future reference. If these items are in a
  table on a webpage you can download an extension to your browser that will
  allow you to copy the data from the webpage into a spreadsheet.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2019-08-15T00:00:00.000Z
  url: https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/importing-web-tables
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: SWDdSvThHDCBz1N0sHBI5
---
Sometimes it can be useful to take information from a website, such as document lists from archives, for future reference. If these items are in a table on a webpage you can download an extension to your browser that will allow you to copy the data from the webpage into a spreadsheet. In this example the browser is Chrome. You can find table capture extensions by googling ‘table capture’ and choosing one of the table capture extensions and click ‘Add to Chrome’.

<SideNote type="note" title="This training resource is located in the GitHub environment, so please go straight to the text in the 'readme' file.">

</SideNote>

## L﻿earning outcome

A﻿fter viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- quickly create a document list to consult in an archive, or for many other research purposes.

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out Importing tables from websites into spreadsheets" url="https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/importing-web-tables" />

Commit message:

Content updates
Updating publication date
Revising abstract
Revising body content
Amending link to External link to bring user straight to 'Read Me'

content/posts/importing-tables-from-websites-into-spreadsheets/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Importing tables from websites into spreadsheets"
lang: en
date: 2023-02-22T14:28:45.283Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - pistol-rachel
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - ehri
abstract: Sometimes it can be useful to take information from a website, such as
  document lists from archives, for future reference. This short resource will show the user how to download an extension to copy tables from websites and then import the table into a spreadsheet program..
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2019-08-15T00:00:00.000Z
  url: https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/importing-web-tables
  publisher: EHRI
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: SWDdSvThHDCBz1N0sHBI5
---
Sometimes in the course of (digital) haumanities research it can be useful to take information from a website, such as document lists from archives, for future reference. If these items are in a table on a webpage, it is possible to capture these and import them into a spreadsheet for further analysis with the help of browser extensions.  This short resource will show the user how to download an extension to copy tables from websites (in this case, 'Table Capture' in the Google Chrome browser), and then import the table into a spreadsheet program.

Please note - any data taken from websites should always be given a proper citation.


## L﻿earning outcomes

A﻿fter viewing this training resource, users will be able to:

- Find an download a browser extension to suit their needs
- Quickly recreate a table from a website for further analysis

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out Importing tables from websites into spreadsheets" url="https://github.com/EHRI/ehri-data-analysis-tools/tree/master/importing-web-tables#readme" />
