content/docs/about/index.mdx, before:

---
title: About DARIAH-Campus
order: 1
---

## What is DARIAH-Campus?

DARIAH-Campus is both a _discovery framework_ and a _hosting platform_ for DARIAH and DARIAH-affiliated offerings in training and education.

The goal of DARIAH-Campus is to widen access to open, inclusive, high-quality learning materials that aim to enhance creativity, skills, technology and knowledge in the digitally-enabled arts and humanities.

DARIAH-Campus started as a pilot project exploring different ways of capturing and consolidating DARIAH learning resources within the H2020-funded project DESIR (DARIAH-ERIC Sustainability Refined).

The beta version of DARIAH-Campus was released on November 6th, 2019 at the DESIR Event in Zagreb.

We're still working on finalising the documentation and have a couple more features in the pipeline. If you have learning resources that you would like to share on or create for DARIAH-Campus, feel free to get in touch with us to discuss next steps.

## Contact Us

<SideNote type="info">

We welcome proposals for new Learning Resources from individuals and groups based at institutions in our member and co-operating partner countries and beyond. In addition, we encourage contributions from scholars, cultural heritage professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals without a formal affiliation. If you would like to contribute a Learning Resource to DARIAH-Campus, please contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk with a brief description of your proposed resource.

</SideNote>

All queries are welcomed, and can be sent to the DARIAH-Campus team via the [DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), Subject: 'Education and training'.

## Acknowledgements

The DARIAH-Campus editorial team would like to acknowledge the work of the Programming Historian team. We recognise the trailblazing work done by their volunteer-driven team in advancing Open Educational Resources, and their carefully-crafted Author Guidelines have served as inspiration for own guidelines.

Commit message:

Proposed changes to documentation (#116)
* Proposed changes to documentation

Incorporating new CMS instructions and merging all the GitHub stuff into one.

* Update content/docs/what-is-dariah-campus/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* updating folder title and links

further links will need to be added once merged

* Update content/docs/proposing-a-contribution/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-the-content-management-system/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/proposing-a-contribution/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update content/docs/using-github-directly/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

* Update index.mdx

Co-authored-by: stefanprobst <stefan.probst@univie.ac.at>

content/docs/about/index.mdx, after:

---
title: About DARIAH-Campus
order: 1
---

## What is DARIAH-Campus?

DARIAH-Campus is both a _discovery framework_ and a _hosting platform_ for DARIAH and DARIAH-affiliated offerings in training and education.

The goal of DARIAH-Campus is to widen access to open, inclusive, high-quality learning materials that aim to enhance creativity, skills, technology and knowledge in the digitally-enabled arts and humanities.

DARIAH-Campus started as a pilot project exploring different ways of capturing and consolidating DARIAH learning resources within the H2020-funded project DESIR (DARIAH-ERIC Sustainability Refined).

The beta version of DARIAH-Campus was released on November 6th, 2019 at the DESIR Event in Zagreb.  In 2021, new features were added to the site to include the addition of curricula, and a new Content Management System to make edits to the site easier for content-providers.

If you have learning resources that you would like to share on or create for DARIAH-Campus, feel free to get in touch with us to discuss next steps.

## Contact Us

<SideNote type="info">

We welcome proposals for new Learning Resources from individuals and groups based at institutions in our member and co-operating partner countries and beyond. In addition, we encourage contributions from scholars, cultural heritage professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals without a formal affiliation. If you would like to contribute a Learning Resource to DARIAH-Campus, please contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk with a brief description of your proposed resource.

</SideNote>

All queries are welcomed, and can be sent to the DARIAH-Campus team via the [DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), Subject: 'Education and training'.

## Acknowledgements

The DARIAH-Campus editorial team would like to acknowledge the work of the Programming Historian team. We recognise the trailblazing work done by their volunteer-driven team in advancing Open Educational Resources, and their carefully-crafted Author Guidelines have served as inspiration for own guidelines.

We also acknowledge the work of Stefan Probst at the Austrian Centre for Digital Humanities and Cultural Heritage (ACDH-CH) for adding the Content Management System.
