contents/resources/Using-digital-archives-for-geographical-and-archaeological-research/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Digital Archives for Geographical and Archaeological Research

date: 2021-03-23
authors:
  - digital-repositry-of-ireland
categories:
  - parthenos
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - open-access
  - training-education
abstract:
  This video recording is of 'Using Digital Archives for Geographical and
  Archaeological Research', the second webinar in a three-part public lecture
  series hosted by the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI), aimed at early
  career researchers. The webinar showcases the rich research resources
  contained in digital archival collections that can be used to advance
  geographical and archaeological research.
type: webinar recording
contributors:
  - barbara-mccormack
  - jennifer-moore
  - rónán-swan
  - kevin-long
remoteUrl: https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.w663hs16k
remotePublicationDate: 2021-03-23
---

This recording is of ‘Using Digital Archives for Geographical and Archaeological
Research’, the second webinar in a three-part public lecture series on using
digital archives for academic research hosted by the Digital Repository of
Ireland (DRI) and aimed primarily at early career researchers.

Access to brick-and-mortar archives has been limited due to COVID-19
restrictions, creating challenges for humanities researchers that rely on
archival materials for their research. This webinar aims to showcase some of the
rich research resources contained in digital archival collections.

Featured digital collections in this webinar include:

- Gabriel Beranger’s ‘Rambles through the County of Dublin and some of the
  neighbouring ones’ and ‘Rambles thro’ the County of Dublin and some others in
  Ireland’: These two albums of watercolours provide illustrations of scenery
  and ancient monuments, general views, and details of castles and churches in
  Ireland. The watercolours are copies of originals (since lost) painted on
  expeditions undertaken by artist Gabriel Beranger, ca. 1729–1817.
- Transport Infrastructure Ireland (TII) Digital Collections: The TII Digital
  Heritage Collections (with ca. 2,800 records) provide access to data and
  results arising from the archaeological and heritage work undertaken by TII
  over the past twenty years in the planning, development and construction of
  national road and light rail projects.
- Irish Historic Towns Atlas (IHTA) Online: IHTA Online forms part of IHTA
  Digital and has the first 28 IHTAs available to search freely online as
  downloadable pdfs. They are grouped thematically by town origin (e.g.,
  monastic, Viking, Anglo-Norman, early modern, Gaelic and plantation,
  eighteenth-century and nineteenth-century towns).

After watching this webinar, early career researchers will be familiar with some
of the digital archival collections that can be explored to advance geographical
and archaeological research, they will have been introduced to many helpful
online research resources, and offered a starting point from which to develop
research methodologies for conducting digital archival research.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Using Digital Archives for Geographical and Archaeological Research"
  url="https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.w663hs16k"
/>

Commit message:

DRI updates for DARIAH-Campus
Minor updates to match DARIAH-Campus house style

Please note:
Change of DRI slug in person.yaml - this is now 'dri'
When adding new people to person.yaml, make sure they are incorporated into the alphabetical order
metadata field 'categories' should be given as 'dariah', not 'parthenos'
metadata field 'type' should be given as 'video'
Heading 'Learning Outcomes' added before final paragraph

Ideally, the CTA should be a video card with an image, if you have one to add :)

contents/resources/Using-digital-archives-for-geographical-and-archaeological-research/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Digital Archives for Geographical and Archaeological Research
date: 2021-06-04
authors:
  - dri
categories:
  - dariah
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - open-access
  - training-education
abstract:
  This video recording is of 'Using Digital Archives for Geographical and
  Archaeological Research', the second webinar in a three-part public lecture
  series hosted by the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI), aimed at early
  career researchers. The webinar showcases the rich research resources
  contained in digital archival collections that can be used to advance
  geographical and archaeological research.
type: video
contributors:
  - barbara-mccormack
  - jennifer-moore
  - rónán-swan
  - kevin-long
remoteUrl: https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.w663hs16k
remotePublicationDate: 2021-03-23
---

This video is of ‘Using Digital Archives for Geographical and Archaeological
Research’, the **second** webinar in a three-part public lecture series on using
digital archives for academic research hosted by the Digital Repository of
Ireland (DRI) and aimed primarily at early career researchers.

Access to brick-and-mortar archives has been limited due to COVID-19
restrictions, creating challenges for humanities researchers that rely on
archival materials for their research. This webinar aims to showcase some of the
rich research resources contained in digital archival collections.

Featured digital collections in this webinar include:

- Gabriel Beranger’s ‘Rambles through the County of Dublin and some of the
  neighbouring ones’ and ‘Rambles thro’ the County of Dublin and some others in
  Ireland’: These two albums of watercolours provide illustrations of scenery
  and ancient monuments, general views, and details of castles and churches in
  Ireland. The watercolours are copies of originals (since lost) painted on
  expeditions undertaken by artist Gabriel Beranger, ca. 1729–1817.

- Transport Infrastructure Ireland (TII) Digital Collections: The TII Digital
  Heritage Collections (with ca. 2,800 records) provide access to data and
  results arising from the archaeological and heritage work undertaken by TII
  over the past twenty years in the planning, development and construction of
  national road and light rail projects.

- Irish Historic Towns Atlas (IHTA) Online: IHTA Online forms part of IHTA
  Digital and has the first 28 IHTAs available to search freely online as
  downloadable pdfs. They are grouped thematically by town origin (e.g.,
  monastic, Viking, Anglo-Norman, early modern, Gaelic and plantation,
  eighteenth-century and nineteenth-century towns).

## Learning Outcomes

After watching this webinar, early career researchers will be familiar with some
of the digital archival collections that can be explored to advance geographical
and archaeological research, they will have been introduced to many helpful
online research resources, and offered a starting point from which to develop
research methodologies for conducting digital archival research.

<CTA
  title="Interested in learning more?"
  subtitle="Using Digital Archives for Geographical and Archaeological Research"
  url="https://doi.org/10.7486/DRI.w663hs16k"
/>
