content/posts/thinking-about-care-principles-in-the-digital-humanities/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities
shortTitle: CARE Principles in DH
lang: en
date: 2022-02-09T14:52:22.276Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - odonnell-dan
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - dariah
abstract: "Prof. Dan O'Donnell from the University of Lethbridge, Canada,
  presents “Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities.  Why CARE
  is not only a matter for researchers working with indigenous peoples”. "
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: webinar-recording
remote:
  date: 2021-12-16T00:00:00.000Z
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: ik-nx5Ol5bFp0jFFo82gw
---
The respectful and ethical treatment of the subjects of data has long been upheld, but the principles for best practice around data drawn from indigenous peoples requires particular attention.  In this presentation, Prof. Dan O'Donnell from the University of Lethbridge (Canada) discusses the CARE Principles, and how they have helped to address issues in his own research among small communities.

This presentation was recorded as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers in-house webinar series.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you will:

- understand what the CARE Principles are and what they stand for
- recognise how the CARE Principles can assist with issues that may arise while conducting research among small communities
- recognise and be able to apply best practice when dealing with data drawn from indigenous peoples

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="zy6D9UQuiig" title="Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities" subtitle="Click here to view" image="images/dan-o-donnell-videocard-thumbnail.png" />

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "thinking-about-care-principles-in-the-digital-humanities/index" (#382)
Automatically generated. Merged on Netlify CMS.

content/posts/thinking-about-care-principles-in-the-digital-humanities/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities
shortTitle: Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities
lang: en
date: 2022-02-09T14:52:22.276Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - odonnell-dan
tags:
  - data-management
categories:
  - dariah
abstract: "Prof. Dan O'Donnell from the University of Lethbridge, Canada,
  presents “Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities.  Why CARE
  is not only a matter for researchers working with indigenous peoples”. "
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: webinar-recording
remote:
  date: 2021-12-16T00:00:00.000Z
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: ik-nx5Ol5bFp0jFFo82gw
---
The respectful and ethical treatment of the subjects of data has long been upheld, but the principles for best practice around data drawn from indigenous peoples requires particular attention.  In this presentation, Prof. Dan O'Donnell from the University of Lethbridge (Canada) discusses the CARE Principles, and how they have helped to address issues in his own research among small communities.

This presentation was recorded as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers in-house webinar series.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you will:

- understand what the CARE Principles are and what they stand for
- recognise how the CARE Principles can assist with issues that may arise while conducting research among small communities
- recognise and be able to apply best practice when dealing with data drawn from indigenous peoples

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="zy6D9UQuiig" title="Thinking about CARE principles in the Digital Humanities" subtitle="Click here to view" image="images/dan-o-donnell-videocard-thumbnail.png" />
