content/posts/photogrammetry-tutorial/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Photogrammetry Tutorial
lang: en
date: 2024-02-27T10:41:27.923Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - herault-romain
  - hanscam-emily
tags:
  - digital-archives
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: images/screenshot-2024-02-27-at-11.36.07.png
abstract: This tutorial introduces the concept of photogrammetry and its
  application using the Kiri Engine, a 3D scanner app. Photogrammetry is a
  technique that transforms photographs into high-quality 3D data, and it’s used
  in various fields such as archaeology, civil engineering, film production, and
  game development. The tutorial guides users through the process of preparing
  an object for a photogrammetry scan, capturing photos, and using Kiri Engine
  to create a 3D model. The tutorial emphasizes the importance of the quality
  and quantity of photos in creating a high-quality 3D model. It also highlights
  the significant implications of photogrammetry in the humanities field,
  particularly in the preservation of historical and cultural artifacts.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2024-02-03T00:00:00.000Z
  url: https://play.lnu.se/media/t/0_ptrvp9y0
  publisher: LNU Play
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: vKpWpHlLS_H_0T4XRVaO8
---
T﻿his video provides:

1. **Understanding of Photogrammetry**: You will learn that photogrammetry is a scientific method used to interpret and measure from photographs. It allows the capture of the physical properties of an object or a scene in the form of high-quality 3D data using just a camera.
2. **Introduction to Kiri Engine**: You will be introduced to Kiri Engine, a 3D scanner app that operates on iOS, Android, and web browsers. It utilizes photogrammetry to convert photographs into 3D models, capturing not only the geometry but also 4K PBR textures.
3. **Practical Application of Photogrammetry**: You will learn how to prepare an object for a photogrammetry scan, including considerations for lighting, background, object placement, camera settings, image capture, and consistency.
4. **Using Kiri Engine**: You will learn how to use Kiri Engine to upload photos, perform 3D reconstruction, review and edit the 3D model, and export the model in various formats.
5. **Implications of Photogrammetry**: You will understand the significant implications of photogrammetry for the field of humanities, including the detailed capture and preservation of historical artifacts, architectural structures, and cultural heritage sites.

Commit message:

content(cms): update Resource "photogrammetry-tutorial/index"

content/posts/photogrammetry-tutorial/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Photogrammetry Tutorial
lang: en
date: 2024-02-27T10:41:27.923Z
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - herault-romain
  - hanscam-emily
tags:
  - digital-archives
categories:
  - dariah
featuredImage: ""
abstract: This tutorial introduces the concept of photogrammetry and its
  application using the Kiri Engine, a 3D scanner app, guiding users through the
  process of preparing an object for scanning, capturing photos, and using Kiri
  Engine to create a 3D model.
domain: Social Sciences and Humanities
targetGroup: Domain researchers
type: training-module
remote:
  date: 2024-02-03T00:00:00.000Z
  url: https://play.lnu.se/media/t/0_ptrvp9y0
  publisher: LNU Play
licence: ccby-4.0
toc: false
draft: false
uuid: vKpWpHlLS_H_0T4XRVaO8
---
Photogrammetry is a technique that transforms photographs into high-quality 3D data, and it’s used in various fields such as archaeology, civil engineering, film production, and game development. The tutorial guides users through the process of preparing an object for a photogrammetry scan, capturing photos, and using Kiri Engine to create a 3D model. The tutorial emphasizes the importance of the quality and quantity of photos in creating a high-quality 3D model. It also highlights the significant implications of photogrammetry in the humanities field, particularly in the preservation of historical and cultural artifacts.

**Learning Outcomes**

After using this resource, learners will be able to:

**Use Photogrammetry**: You will understand that photogrammetry is a scientific method used to interpret and measure from photographs. It allows the capture of the physical properties of an object or a scene in the form of high-quality 3D data using just a camera.

**Use Kiri Engine**: You will learn how to use Kiri Engine to upload photos, perform 3D reconstruction, review and edit the 3D model, and export the model in various formats.

**Practically apply photogrammetry**: You will be able to prepare an object for a photogrammetry scan, including considerations for lighting, background, object placement, camera settings, image capture, and consistency.

**Understand the implications of Photogrammetry**: You will understand the significant implications of photogrammetry for the field of humanities, including the detailed capture and preservation of historical artifacts, architectural structures, and cultural heritage sites.

<ExternalResource title="Interested in learning more?" subtitle="Check out &quot;Photogrammetry Tutorial&quot;" url="https://play.lnu.se/media/t/0_ptrvp9y0" />
