content/en/resources/hosted/eosc-for-arts-and-humanities-scholars/index.mdx, before:

---
title: EOSC for Arts and Humanities Scholars
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-07-12
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - toth-czifra-erzsebet
  - barbot-laure
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - eosc
  - open-science
  - data-management
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: As part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers in-house webinar series,
    Erzsébet Tóth-Czifra and Laure Barbot provide an introduction to EOSC and
    open science projects for researchers and practitioners working in the Arts
    and Humanities.  They include a brief walk through the EOSC landscape, and
    how different EOSC projects are working towards ensuring open science for
    all.
content-type: training-module
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-167f-7576-a597-26d49f28c729
---
Erzsébet Tóth-Czifra and Laure Barbot provide an introduction to EOSC and open science projects for researchers and practitioners working in the Arts and Humanities. They include a brief walk through the EOSC landscape, and how different EOSC projects are working towards ensuring open science for all.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should:

* Have an awareness of the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) and its broad overall aims
* Understand how different projects contribute to the work of EOSC
* Recognise how EOSC and broader Open Science initiatives can support researchers in the Arts and Humanities

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="tXpmrOtoPoA" title="EOSC for Arts and Humanities Scholars" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/eosc-for-arts-and-humanities-scholars/thumbnail-eosc-for-ahss.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/eosc-for-arts-and-humanities-scholars/index.mdx, after:

---
title: EOSC for Arts and Humanities Scholars
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-07-12
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - toth-czifra-erzsebet
  - barbot-laure
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - eosc
  - open-science
  - data-management
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: >-
    As part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers in-house webinar series, Erzsébet
    Tóth-Czifra and Laure Barbot provide an introduction to EOSC and open
    science projects for researchers and practitioners working in the Arts and
    Humanities.  They include a brief walk through the EOSC landscape, and how
    different EOSC projects are working towards ensuring open science for all.
content-type: training-module
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-167f-7576-a597-26d49f28c729
---
Erzsébet Tóth-Czifra and Laure Barbot provide an introduction to EOSC and open science projects for researchers and practitioners working in the Arts and Humanities. They include a brief walk through the EOSC landscape, and how different EOSC projects are working towards ensuring open science for all.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should:

* Have an awareness of the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) and its broad overall aims
* Understand how different projects contribute to the work of EOSC
* Recognise how EOSC and broader Open Science initiatives can support researchers in the Arts and Humanities

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="tXpmrOtoPoA" title="EOSC for Arts and Humanities Scholars" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/eosc-for-arts-and-humanities-scholars/thumbnail-eosc-for-ahss.png" />
