content/events/building-and-linking-humanities-digital-spatial-infrastructures-for-research-in-the-nordic-countries/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Building and Linking Humanities' Digital Spatial Infrastructures for
  Research in the Nordic Countries
shortTitle: Building and Linking Humanities' Digital Spatial Infrastructures for
  Research in the Nordic Countries
eventType: Workshop
lang: en
date: 2023-01-24T07:21:18.701Z
tags:
  - controlled-vocabularies
  - data-management
  - data-modeling
  - data-visualisation
  - dh
  - spatial-humanities
  - research-infrastructures
categories:
  - events
logo: images/nos.png
featuredImage: images/nw-allmän1.jpg
abstract: This workshop, focussing on “Spatial data medieval to modern”, is the first of a series of workshops from the NOS-HS project "Linking, Building, and Sustaining Humanities Digital Spatial Infrastructures for Research in the Nordic Countries".  The main aims of this workshop were to  define key concepts (spatial infrastructures, Linked Open Data, metadata, ontology),
  outline major challenges in the field, and to provide an opportunity to share
  experiences of addressing the issues in individual and national projects
  across the Nordic countries.
authors:
  - petrulevich-alexandra
  - ellis-nilsson-sara
  - gammeltoft-peder
  - lethbridge-emily
  - smith-marcus
  - isaksen-leif
  - mostern-ruth
  - vikström-lisa
about: "The project **“Linking, Building and Sustaining Humanities Digital Spatial
  Infrastructures for Research in the Nordic Countries“** aims to bring together
  humanities researchers and research engineers and others in related sectors
  (museums, archives, libraries) who are working on geocoded humanities data
  pertaining to the Nordic countries and beyond. The objectives are to :


    (1)  generate dialogue and exchange between relevant academic and non-academic
  sectors on the subject of spatial data and data infrastructures in the
  Humanities, and


    (2) facilitate a collaborative initiative whereby common principles regarding ontologies and metadata will be mapped out by members of
  the network.


  Collaborative data infrastructure solutions based on Linked Open
  Data (LOD) and FAIR data principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable,
  Reusable) will underpin and further advances in Humanities research that
  builds on geocoded data.

  The project will be new co-operation since none of the project proposers have collaborated formally together previously, and
  great emphasis is placed on the participation – and leadership – of early
  career researchers. The project‘s Nordic added value lies in the creation of a
  new Nordic-centred network with a shared vision regarding geocoded humanities
  data and sustainability needs (amongst other things), as well as in
  positioning Nordic participants and spatial data at the heart of a working
  group that aims to submit a European grant application under the Research
  Infrastructures call in the Horizon Europe Program for 2021-2027. Concrete
  results from the collaboration will be published in the form of reports and
  scientific papers.


  In total three workshops are planned in this project: Uppsala, Sweden (May 2022), Bergen, Norway (September 2022) and Reykjavík, Iceland (May 2023).  For this first workshop, three project work packages were addressed:

    (1) establishing common metadata
  principles and ontologies in Nordic Humanities digital spatial infrastructure
  for research;

    (2) implementation of Linked Open Data principles to existing
  datasets curated by workshop organizers;

    (3) work towards an EU grant application.

    Keynote speakers and invited participants will
  share theoretical and practical experiences relevant to the execution of each
  work package, and the mirrored structure of each workshop will ensure that
  milestones are reached and measurable progress is made cumulatively for each
  work package."
type: event
licence: ccby-4.0
partners:
  - dariah-eu
social:
  website: https://nordic-spatialhumanities.org/
  twitter: "@NordicSpatial"
synthesis: ""
uuid: CvFz2h8DMeC0cnaFzIY54
sessions:
  - speakers:
      - smith-marcus
    title: "Linked Open Cultural Heritage Data: LOD and RDF in Theory and Practice"
    body: T﻿he talk addresses implementation of Linked Open Data in the Swedish
      cultural heritage sector with SOCH (Swedish Open Cultural Heritage) as its
      main example. Challenges of updating bespoke legacy solutions in order to
      achieve greater compatibility with overarching aggregators such as
      Europeana are also illuminated.

      <Video provider="youtube" id="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Sqyff632Y2M" caption="Presentation by Marcus Smith" />

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="smith-marcus">

        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Keeping a Sense of Perspective: Spatial Data Infrastructures and the
      Humanities"
    speakers:
      - isaksen-leif
    body: Leif Isaksen talks the listener through the issues of making SDIs out of
      often messy humanities data. Special attention is paid to data management,
      i.e. reliability, bias vs. flexibility, scope, and perspective. Examples
      are fetched from i.a. Greek and Egyptian materials.

      <Video provider="youtube" id="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LmNVQwaxfNc" caption="Presentation by Leif Isaksen" />

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="isaksen-leif">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "The World Historical Gazetteer: Common Metadata Principles and Common
      Vocabularies and Ontologies"
    speakers:
      - mostern-ruth
    body: Ruth Mostern outlines humanities perspectives on place and place-making
      and how these can be operationalised in SRIs. The collaborative World
      Historical Gazetteer (WHG) project and its outputs serve as the main
      example. The talk focuses primarily on developing ontologies and
      vocabulary in a project setting e.g. Linked Places Format developed for
      the WHG.

      <Video provider="youtube" id="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RmoO-aJjDKw" caption="Presentation by Ruth Mostern" />

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="mostern-ruth">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>
---
30 May - 1 June 2022
Uppsala, Sweden

The keynote lectures were produced as outputs from the workshop Spatial data medieval to modern held in Uppsala May 30 - 1 June 2022. The lectures cover key concepts in the field of (spatial) digital research infrastructures in the Humanities such as spatial infrastructures, Linked Open Data (LOD), metadata, ontology etc., outline major challenges in the field and give some concrete, authentic examples of how to overcome at least some of them in small- and large-scale projects in both academia and the GLAM sector.

Commit message:

Final changes
Updating abstract, title and content
Updating Marcus Smith profile

content/events/building-and-linking-humanities-digital-spatial-infrastructures-for-research-in-the-nordic-countries/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Building and Linking Humanities' Digital Spatial Infrastructures
shortTitle: Building and Linking Humanities' Digital Spatial Infrastructures
eventType: Workshop
lang: en
date: 2023-01-24T07:21:18.701Z
tags:
  - controlled-vocabularies
  - data-management
  - data-modeling
  - data-visualisation
  - dh
  - spatial-humanities
  - research-infrastructures
categories:
  - events
logo: images/nos.png
featuredImage: images/nw-allmän1.jpg
abstract: This workshop, focussing on “Spatial data medieval to modern”, is the first of a series of workshops from the NOS-HS project "Linking, Building, and Sustaining Humanities Digital Spatial Infrastructures for Research in the Nordic Countries".  The main aims of this workshop were to  define key concepts (spatial infrastructures, Linked Open Data, metadata, ontology),
  outline major challenges in the field, and to provide an opportunity to share
  experiences of addressing the issues in individual and national projects
  across the Nordic countries.
authors:
  - petrulevich-alexandra
  - ellis-nilsson-sara
  - gammeltoft-peder
  - lethbridge-emily
  - smith-marcus
  - isaksen-leif
  - mostern-ruth
  - vikström-lisa
about: "The project **“Linking, Building and Sustaining Humanities Digital Spatial
  Infrastructures for Research in the Nordic Countries“** aims to bring together
  humanities researchers and research engineers and others in related sectors
  (museums, archives, libraries) who are working on geocoded humanities data
  pertaining to the Nordic countries and beyond. The objectives are to :


    (1)  generate dialogue and exchange between relevant academic and non-academic
  sectors on the subject of spatial data and data infrastructures in the
  Humanities, and


    (2) facilitate a collaborative initiative whereby common principles regarding ontologies and metadata will be mapped out by members of
  the network.


  Collaborative data infrastructure solutions based on Linked Open
  Data (LOD) and FAIR data principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable,
  Reusable) will underpin and further advance Humanities research that
  builds on geocoded data.

  The project is a new Nordic co-operation creating a network with a shared vision regarding geocoded humanities data and sustainability needs.  In addition, the project positions Nordic participants and spatial data at the heart of a working group that aims to submit a European grant application under the Research Infrastructures call in the Horizon Europe Program for 2021-2027. Concrete results from the collaboration will be published in the form of reports and scientific papers.

  In this first workshop, three issues were addressed:

    (1) establishing common metadata
  principles and ontologies in Nordic Humanities digital spatial infrastructure
  for research;

    (2) implementation of Linked Open Data principles to existing
  datasets curated by workshop organizers;

    (3) work towards an EU grant application.

  Keynote speakers and invited participants shared theoretical and practical experiences.

  In total three workshops have been planned in this project: Uppsala, Sweden (May 2022) represented here; Bergen, Norway (September 2022); and Reykjavík, Iceland (May 2023).  Blogposts covering the second and third workshops in this series can be found on the project website here: https://nordic-spatialhumanities.org/

  **Keynote speakers**

  Marcus Smith
  "Linked Open Cultural Heritage Data: LOD and RDF in Theory and Practice"

  Leif Isaksen
  "Keeping a Sense of Perspective: Spatial Data Infrastructures and the Humanities"

  Ruth Mostern
  "The World Historical Gazetteer: Common Metadata Principles and Common Vocabularies and Ontologies"

  **Workshop Organisers**
  Alexandra Petrulevich
  Sara Ellis Nilsson
  Lisa Vikström
  Peder Gammeltoft
  Emily Lethbridge"
type: event
licence: ccby-4.0
partners:
  - dariah-eu
social:
  website: https://nordic-spatialhumanities.org/
  twitter: "@NordicSpatial"
synthesis: ""
uuid: CvFz2h8DMeC0cnaFzIY54
sessions:
  - speakers:
      - smith-marcus
    title: "Linked Open Cultural Heritage Data: LOD and RDF in Theory and Practice"
    body: T﻿he talk addresses implementation of Linked Open Data in the Swedish
      cultural heritage sector with SOCH (Swedish Open Cultural Heritage) as its
      main example. Challenges of updating bespoke legacy solutions in order to
      achieve greater compatibility with overarching aggregators such as
      Europeana are also illuminated.

      <Video provider="youtube" id="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Sqyff632Y2M" caption="Presentation by Marcus Smith" />

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="smith-marcus">

        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "Keeping a Sense of Perspective: Spatial Data Infrastructures and the
      Humanities"
    speakers:
      - isaksen-leif
    body: Leif Isaksen talks the listener through the issues of making SDIs out of
      often messy humanities data. Special attention is paid to data management,
      i.e. reliability, bias vs. flexibility, scope, and perspective. Examples
      are fetched from i.a. Greek and Egyptian materials.

      <Video provider="youtube" id="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LmNVQwaxfNc" caption="Presentation by Leif Isaksen" />

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="isaksen-leif">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>

  - title: "The World Historical Gazetteer: Common Metadata Principles and Common
      Vocabularies and Ontologies"
    speakers:
      - mostern-ruth
    body: Ruth Mostern outlines humanities perspectives on place and place-making
      and how these can be operationalised in SRIs. The collaborative World
      Historical Gazetteer (WHG) project and its outputs serve as the main
      example. The talk focuses primarily on developing ontologies and
      vocabulary in a project setting e.g. Linked Places Format developed for
      the WHG.

      <Video provider="youtube" id="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RmoO-aJjDKw" caption="Presentation by Ruth Mostern" />

      <Speakers>
        <Speaker speaker="mostern-ruth">
        </Speaker>
      </Speakers>
---
30 May - 1 June 2022
Uppsala, Sweden

This workshop covers key concepts in the field of (spatial) digital research infrastructures in the Humanities such as spatial infrastructures, Linked Open Data (LOD), metadata, ontology etc. It also outlines major challenges in the field and gives some concrete, authentic examples of how to overcome them in small and large-scale projects in both academia and the GLAM sector.
