documentation/author-guidelines-pathfinders.mdx, before:

---
title: DARIAH-Campus Pathfinders Author Guidelines
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
---

Our "Pathfinders" are specially-produced, humanist-friendly common-sense guides on a variety of topics relating to digitally-enabled research and teaching. The purpose of these guides is to provide curated information and access to externally-hosted resources that might extend beyond those created by members of the DARIAH network. DARIAH-Campus (D-C) welcomes proposals from individuals and groups based at institutions in the DARIAH member and co-operating partner countries. In addition, we encourage contributions from scholars, cultural heritage professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals without a formal affiliation.
To help with the process of suggesting and preparing a Pathfinder, we have produced the following guidelines.

<Panel>

Recommendations and/or questions about the flexibility of these guidelines—or general enquiries about the process of creating a Pathfinder—are welcome, and can be directed to [DARIAH’s Training and Education Officer](info@dariah.eu).

</Panel>

## 1. Proposing a new Pathfinder

If you would like to contribute a Pathfinder, please [contact us](info@dariah.eu) with a structured abstract, including the following information:

<Panel>

**Title.** Title of the Pathfinder.
**Brief description (<300 words).** A description of the resource in fewer than 300 words.
**Author.** The author(s) of the resource.
**Contributors.** Any other contributors to the resource.
**Keywords.** As many keywords as are relevant for the resource.
**Domain.** A field of science or expertise covered by the resource.
**Anticipated time of delivery.** An estimated time for the completion of the resource to help with the planning process.

</Panel>

The D-C team will then get back to you with any comments and/or questions and a formal invitation to submit your material for review.

## 2. Drafting your Pathfinder for community review

DARIAH-Campus operates a community review system for our Pathfinders. This is aimed at bringing the greatest possible breadth of perspectives to each topic. Authors are asked to send their Pathfinder to the DARIAH-Campus team as a Word document, and it will be uploaded to GoogleDocs for comments from the community. Each Pathfinder will remain open for four weeks, or until the author(s) are satisfied that the review process is complete.
There is no prescribed format for D-C Pathfinders: both the form and content will be determined by their topic, function, and audience. However, we ask that your review document:

- Provides the **basic metadata**: provide the title, author(s) and contributor(s) name(s), and keywords at the top of the document.

- Has an **introduction**: stating the purpose of the resource and what kinds of tools, information, bibliographical material, websites, etc that it brings together. Outline the structure of the resource and make it clear what the reader should learn from/get from it.

- Is **broken down into manageable sections**, organised under structuring headings, with a table of contents provided. Each section should provide **curated links** to relevant tools; websites; readings; and other resources, with contextualising interpretation, explanation, and/or narration.

For inspiration, an example of a published Pathfinder is the [DARIAH Guide to data management best practices in the humanities](link).

## 3. The community review process

Once you have submitted a draft, the DARIAH-Campus team will open it for a process of open consultation in Google Docs. Even after this community review process is closed, these comments and suggestions will be preserved in order to provide a record of the development of the resource and who has contributed.

Comments and suggestions can be made both anonymously and by named contributors. All changes are required to be made in editing mode by community reviewers. Changes and comments will be expected to be supportive and constructive in their nature and tone, and will be monitored and moderated by the DARIAH team.

## 4. Converting to Markdown for publication

Once you are satisfied with the outcome of the community review process, the completed Pathfinder will be hosted and version-controlled in a GitHub repository. It will be delivered to the user as part of an elegant Gatsby-based overlay website.

Gatsby converts Markdown into HTML pages, and for this reason we ask you to convert your Pathfinder into Markdown for publication. Text must be provided in a text editor such as Atom, TextWrangler, TextEdit, or Notepad++ rather than in a word processor such as MS Word. This can seem intimidating if you have not done it before, but there are many online guides to getting started with Markdown. For instance, Programming Historian have an excellent introduction, [Getting Started with Markdown](https://programminghistorian.org/lessons/getting-started-with-markdown).

The editorial team are committed to making the process of providing and editing your Pathfinder as simple as possible, and so have provided the following template. We are happy to provide guidance with using this at any stage of the preparation and submission process:

**DARIAH-Campus Pathfinder Markdown TEMPLATE**

## 5. Contact Us

All queries are welcomed, and can be sent to the DARIAH-Campus team via the [DARIAH Training and Education officer](info@dariah.eu)

Commit message:

Changed contact details to Helpdesk

documentation/author-guidelines-pathfinders.mdx, after:

---
title: DARIAH-Campus Pathfinders Author Guidelines
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
---

Our "Pathfinders" are specially-produced, humanist-friendly common-sense guides on a variety of topics relating to digitally-enabled research and teaching. The purpose of these guides is to provide curated information and access to externally-hosted resources that might extend beyond those created by members of the DARIAH network. DARIAH-Campus (D-C) welcomes proposals from individuals and groups based at institutions in the DARIAH member and co-operating partner countries. In addition, we encourage contributions from scholars, cultural heritage professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals without a formal affiliation.
To help with the process of suggesting and preparing a Pathfinder, we have produced the following guidelines.

<Panel>

Recommendations and/or questions about the flexibility of these guidelines—or general enquiries about the process of creating a Pathfinder—are welcome, and can be directed to the [DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), subject: 'Education and training'.

</Panel>

## 1. Proposing a new Pathfinder

If you would like to contribute a Pathfinder, please contact us via the [DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/) with a structured abstract, including the following information:

<Panel>

**Title.** Title of the Pathfinder.
**Brief description (<300 words).** A description of the resource in fewer than 300 words.
**Author.** The author(s) of the resource.
**Contributors.** Any other contributors to the resource.
**Keywords.** As many keywords as are relevant for the resource.
**Domain.** A field of science or expertise covered by the resource.
**Anticipated time of delivery.** An estimated time for the completion of the resource to help with the planning process.

</Panel>

The D-C team will then get back to you with any comments and/or questions and a formal invitation to submit your material for review.

## 2. Drafting your Pathfinder for community review

DARIAH-Campus operates a community review system for our Pathfinders. This is aimed at bringing the greatest possible breadth of perspectives to each topic. Authors are asked to send their Pathfinder to the DARIAH-Campus team as a Word document, and it will be uploaded to GoogleDocs for comments from the community. Each Pathfinder will remain open for four weeks, or until the author(s) are satisfied that the review process is complete.
There is no prescribed format for D-C Pathfinders: both the form and content will be determined by their topic, function, and audience. However, we ask that your review document:

- Provides the **basic metadata**: provide the title, author(s) and contributor(s) name(s), and keywords at the top of the document.

- Has an **introduction**: stating the purpose of the resource and what kinds of tools, information, bibliographical material, websites, etc that it brings together. Outline the structure of the resource and make it clear what the reader should learn from/get from it.

- Is **broken down into manageable sections**, organised under structuring headings, with a table of contents provided. Each section should provide **curated links** to relevant tools; websites; readings; and other resources, with contextualising interpretation, explanation, and/or narration.

For inspiration, an example of a published Pathfinder is the [DARIAH Guide to data management best practices in the humanities](link).

## 3. The community review process

Once you have submitted a draft, the DARIAH-Campus team will open it for a process of open consultation in Google Docs. Even after this community review process is closed, these comments and suggestions will be preserved in order to provide a record of the development of the resource and who has contributed.

Comments and suggestions can be made both anonymously and by named contributors. All changes are required to be made in editing mode by community reviewers. Changes and comments will be expected to be supportive and constructive in their nature and tone, and will be monitored and moderated by the DARIAH team.

## 4. Converting to Markdown for publication

Once you are satisfied with the outcome of the community review process, the completed Pathfinder will be hosted and version-controlled in a GitHub repository. It will be delivered to the user as part of an elegant Gatsby-based overlay website.

Gatsby converts Markdown into HTML pages, and for this reason we ask you to convert your Pathfinder into Markdown for publication. Text must be provided in a text editor such as Atom, TextWrangler, TextEdit, or Notepad++ rather than in a word processor such as MS Word. This can seem intimidating if you have not done it before, but there are many online guides to getting started with Markdown. For instance, Programming Historian have an excellent introduction, [Getting Started with Markdown](https://programminghistorian.org/lessons/getting-started-with-markdown).

The editorial team are committed to making the process of providing and editing your Pathfinder as simple as possible, and so have provided the following template. We are happy to provide guidance with using this at any stage of the preparation and submission process:

**DARIAH-Campus Pathfinder Markdown TEMPLATE**

## 5. Contact Us

All queries are welcomed, and can be sent to the DARIAH-Campus team via the [DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), subject: 'Education and training'.
