documentation/doing-the-work.mdx, before:

---
title: Doing the work
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
number: 5
---

When you work on your own learning resource, you will work locally, on your
computer, in the locally cloned fork of DARIAH-Campus.

To help you start working on your contribution in Markdown, we have created
templates that you can use.

## Starting with a template

### Hosted resource

Once you have set up DARIAH-Campus on your computer, you can use the
`resource-template-folder` as a basis for your contribution.

You can find this template folder in your local working copy in the ‘templates’
folder i.e: `dariah-campus > templates > resources > resource-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img1_copying.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img2_pasting.png)

Once you have compied the template to your local ‘resources’ folder, you can
start editing. You can see an example of the `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img3_green.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
resource. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or to
include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a look
at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it, and if you are
running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser, you should see your
event appear in the ‘Resources’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your draft hosted resource, you can submit it to the
DARIAH-Campus team via GitHub.

### Pathfinder

Once you have set up DARIAH-Campus on your computer, you can use the
`pathfinder-template-folder` as a basis for your contribution.

You can find this template folder in your local working copy in the ‘templates’
folder i.e.

`dariah-campus > templates > resources > pathfinder-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img1_copy.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder in your fork

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img2_paste.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘resources’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img3_index.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
resource. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or to
include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a look
at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Resources’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your draft hosted resource, you can submit it to the
DARIAH-Campus team via GitHub.

### Event

Once you have set up DARIAH-Campus on your computer, you can use the
`event-template-folder` as a basis for your contribution.

You can find this template folder in your local working copy in the ‘templates’
folder i.e.

`dariah-campus > templates > events > event-template-folder`

![Copying the event template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img1_copy.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘content/events’ folder in your fork.

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img2_paste.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘events’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img3_ingreen.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
captured event. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or
to include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a
look at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Events’ page, as in here:

![Copying the event template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your 'Captured Event', you can ‘commit’ it via GitHub to
the DARIAH-Campus team.

## Creating content

### Writing in Markdown

DARIAH-Campus content needs to be written in Markdown. This can seem
intimidating if you have not done it before, but there are many online guides to
getting started with Markdown. For instance, Programming Historian have an
excellent introduction,
[Getting Started with Markdown](https://programminghistorian.org/lessons/getting-started-with-markdown).

Text must be provided in a text editor such as Atom, TextWrangler, TextEdit, or
Notepad++ rather than in a word processor such as MS Word.

The templates provided in the previous section should help you get started, but
we'll be happy to provide more guidance at any stage of the preparation and
submission process.

### Multimedia

#### Images

Learning resources benefit from images to break up the text and for illustrative
and instructive purposes. The exact nature and content of these images is
flexible according to the type and topic area of your learning resource. They
can range from photographs; to infographics; diagrams; maps; screenshots and
more. These images should be incorporated into the body of your resource using
the following code:

```markdown
![Description of image](images/imagename.png)
```

The path or URL to the image asset is in parentheses. The text in square
brackets is the alt text.

To add a link to an image, enclose the Markdown for the image in brackets, and
then add the link in parentheses.

```markdown
[![Description of image](images/imagename.png)](https://linktotheimage.eu)
```

We ask authors to use intelligible file names that either indicate the content
of the image (data-reuse-diagram.png) or indicate which figure it is within the
module (research-infrastructures-fig-1.png). Prepare either .png or .jpg and
upload at largest possible size. Check image reuse rights and choose content in
the public domain and under Creative Commons licenses. Provide a descriptive
figure caption, including source for third-party images, and other information
such as shelfmark where relevant.

#### Videos

Videos are welcomed, since they provide vital contextual information on a
subject and/or step-by-step guidance to complete exercises and practical task.
To include a video as part of your material, you can upload it to the
DARIAH-Campus YouTube channel, or link to the video on your own channel. These
videos are included into the body of your material using the following code:

To insert a YouTube video, use the following code:

```jsx
<VideoCard
  title="Title of the Video"
  id="SI3u9nu7YEY"
  image="images/imagename.jpg"
/>
```

- the "id" is the part of the url after "v=" and before "&". So, for
  "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SI3u9nu7YEY&t=164s" it is: "SI3u9nu7YEY".
- "image" allows you to choose a screenshot that will appear until the learner
  clicks the play button.

There are other options for inserting videos; guidance for these can be found in
the [Sample-resource template](link)

Any video published on the DARIAH-Campus YouTube Channel is covered by a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC
BY-NC-SA 4.0). We ask that any externally-hosted videos that you produce as part
of your materials are also licenced for reuse.

If linking to third-party videos, insert the video using the above code, and
provide the full details as a caption in your course text, in the following
format: "Title, Source, URL (Licence)".

## Self-assessment activities

Self-assessment activities such as online tests or quizzes enliven the learning
process; address different learning styles; and provide opportunities to expand
upon the course content in the classroom or independently. These can include
quizzes; exercises; assignments; questions to consider in a group discussion;
practical step-by-step tutorials guiding learners through a task; and much more.
Since the technical guidelines for including this kind of material will vary
according to their nature, the DARIAH-Campus editorial team will be happy to
discuss your requirements as you develop your resource.

## Language and readability

Where writing in English, keep an international audience in mind and avoid
idioms and colloquialisms where possible. We are open to submissions in
languages other than English. We are committed to inclusiveness, and welcome new
additions to the editorial and reviewing team, in order to expand our reach.
Please contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk, if you would like to be a part of
this team.

## Openness and Licencing

DARIAH-Campus learning materials are licensed under a Creative Commons CC BY-SA
licence. This ensures that they are available for free; can be re-mixed and
repurposed; and are easy to combine with other materials and courses. The
integrity of the resource is ensured under the ‘Attribution’ requirement,
whereby re-users must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license,
and indicate if changes were made.

Commit message:

Cite-As documentation added
New sub-section added to the 'Creating Content' section of 'Doing The Work' in the documentation, including an image to show where the metadata items all fit into the citation.

documentation/doing-the-work.mdx, after:

---
title: Doing the work
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
number: 5
---

When you work on your own learning resource, you will work locally, on your
computer, in the locally cloned fork of DARIAH-Campus.

To help you start working on your contribution in Markdown, we have created
templates that you can use.

## Starting with a template

### Hosted resource

Once you have set up DARIAH-Campus on your computer, you can use the
`resource-template-folder` as a basis for your contribution.

You can find this template folder in your local working copy in the ‘templates’
folder i.e: `dariah-campus > templates > resources > resource-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img1_copying.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img2_pasting.png)

Once you have compied the template to your local ‘resources’ folder, you can
start editing. You can see an example of the `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img3_green.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
resource. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or to
include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a look
at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it, and if you are
running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser, you should see your
event appear in the ‘Resources’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your draft hosted resource, you can submit it to the
DARIAH-Campus team via GitHub.

### Pathfinder

Once you have set up DARIAH-Campus on your computer, you can use the
`pathfinder-template-folder` as a basis for your contribution.

You can find this template folder in your local working copy in the ‘templates’
folder i.e.

`dariah-campus > templates > resources > pathfinder-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img1_copy.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder in your fork

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img2_paste.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘resources’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img3_index.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
resource. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or to
include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a look
at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Resources’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your draft hosted resource, you can submit it to the
DARIAH-Campus team via GitHub.

### Event

Once you have set up DARIAH-Campus on your computer, you can use the
`event-template-folder` as a basis for your contribution.

You can find this template folder in your local working copy in the ‘templates’
folder i.e.

`dariah-campus > templates > events > event-template-folder`

![Copying the event template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img1_copy.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘content/events’ folder in your fork.

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img2_paste.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘events’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img3_ingreen.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
captured event. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or
to include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a
look at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Events’ page, as in here:

![Copying the event template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your 'Captured Event', you can ‘commit’ it via GitHub to
the DARIAH-Campus team.

## Creating content

### Setting the Metadata for Citation

The metadata of your resource is important as it forms the basis of the
**citation** recommendation that you will see at the top of all the training
resources. In order to ensure that this citation is correct, you will need to
make sure you have the following information to hand:

- The Title of Your Resource
- The names of any authors, contributing authors or editors of your resource
- The 'type' of training resource it is, e.g. 'training module', 'video'
- The URL for where the resource is currently located. This is called the
  '**remoteUrl**' in the metadata (this only applies for External Resources)
- The date your training resource was originally published. This is called the
  '**remotePublicationDate**' in the metadata (this only applies for External
  Resources)
- The name of the organisation, or project that your resource comes from e.g.
  'PARTHENOS-EU'. This is called the '**remotePublisher**' in the metadata (this
  only applies for External Resources)

You can see how these metadata items fit into the citation below:
![DARIAH-Campus Citation Fields](images/dariah-campus-citation-fields.jpeg)

The specific metadata that is required for your resource type is given at the
top of all the index.mdx files in our template folders (see above), and it also
comes with some guidance notes to help you find the information you need. There
are more metadata fields for you to fill in, but these metadata fields above are
particularly important for the citation.

### Writing in Markdown

DARIAH-Campus content needs to be written in Markdown. This can seem
intimidating if you have not done it before, but there are many online guides to
getting started with Markdown. For instance, Programming Historian have an
excellent introduction,
[Getting Started with Markdown](https://programminghistorian.org/lessons/getting-started-with-markdown).

Text must be provided in a text editor such as Atom, TextWrangler, TextEdit, or
Notepad++ rather than in a word processor such as MS Word.

The templates provided in the previous section should help you get started, but
we'll be happy to provide more guidance at any stage of the preparation and
submission process.

### Multimedia

#### Images

Learning resources benefit from images to break up the text and for illustrative
and instructive purposes. The exact nature and content of these images is
flexible according to the type and topic area of your learning resource. They
can range from photographs; to infographics; diagrams; maps; screenshots and
more. These images should be incorporated into the body of your resource using
the following code:

```markdown
![Description of image](images/imagename.png)
```

The path or URL to the image asset is in parentheses. The text in square
brackets is the alt text.

To add a link to an image, enclose the Markdown for the image in brackets, and
then add the link in parentheses.

```markdown
[![Description of image](images/imagename.png)](https://linktotheimage.eu)
```

We ask authors to use intelligible file names that either indicate the content
of the image (data-reuse-diagram.png) or indicate which figure it is within the
module (research-infrastructures-fig-1.png). Prepare either .png or .jpg and
upload at largest possible size. Check image reuse rights and choose content in
the public domain and under Creative Commons licenses. Provide a descriptive
figure caption, including source for third-party images, and other information
such as shelfmark where relevant.

#### Videos

Videos are welcomed, since they provide vital contextual information on a
subject and/or step-by-step guidance to complete exercises and practical task.
To include a video as part of your material, you can upload it to the
DARIAH-Campus YouTube channel, or link to the video on your own channel. These
videos are included into the body of your material using the following code:

To insert a YouTube video, use the following code:

```jsx
<VideoCard
  title="Title of the Video"
  id="SI3u9nu7YEY"
  image="images/imagename.jpg"
/>
```

- the "id" is the part of the url after "v=" and before "&". So, for
  "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SI3u9nu7YEY&t=164s" it is: "SI3u9nu7YEY".
- "image" allows you to choose a screenshot that will appear until the learner
  clicks the play button.

There are other options for inserting videos; guidance for these can be found in
the [Sample-resource template](link)

Any video published on the DARIAH-Campus YouTube Channel is covered by a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC
BY-NC-SA 4.0). We ask that any externally-hosted videos that you produce as part
of your materials are also licenced for reuse.

If linking to third-party videos, insert the video using the above code, and
provide the full details as a caption in your course text, in the following
format: "Title, Source, URL (Licence)".

## Self-assessment activities

Self-assessment activities such as online tests or quizzes enliven the learning
process; address different learning styles; and provide opportunities to expand
upon the course content in the classroom or independently. These can include
quizzes; exercises; assignments; questions to consider in a group discussion;
practical step-by-step tutorials guiding learners through a task; and much more.
Since the technical guidelines for including this kind of material will vary
according to their nature, the DARIAH-Campus editorial team will be happy to
discuss your requirements as you develop your resource.

## Language and readability

Where writing in English, keep an international audience in mind and avoid
idioms and colloquialisms where possible. We are open to submissions in
languages other than English. We are committed to inclusiveness, and welcome new
additions to the editorial and reviewing team, in order to expand our reach.
Please contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk, if you would like to be a part of
this team.

## Openness and Licencing

DARIAH-Campus learning materials are licensed under a Creative Commons CC BY-SA
licence. This ensures that they are available for free; can be re-mixed and
repurposed; and are easy to combine with other materials and courses. The
integrity of the resource is ensured under the ‘Attribution’ requirement,
whereby re-users must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license,
and indicate if changes were made.
