documentation/github-workflow.mdx, before:

---
title: GitHub Workflow
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
number: 6
---

DARIAH-Campus uses GitHub for its editorial workflow.

Once you start working on your contribution, you should make sure you get into
the habit of regularly syncing your local clone with the remote clone and the
original repository, as well as committing (saving) your work both to your local
clone and your remote server.

## Saving your contribution

This may sound coumplicated, but is actually quite logical. Once you have done
it several times, it will become like second nature to you:

1. **Fetch origin**. Before you start a working session on your computer, make
   sure you "fetch origin": ![](images/github_desktop_fetch_origin.png) This
   will update your local fork with possible changes you've made to your
   "origin", i.e. your fork on GitHub.com. This is important if you're, for
   instance, working on more than one computer.
2. **Merge from upstream**. Also, before you start your working session, you
   should merge from upstream by going to Branch > Merge into current branch >
   Select upstream/master and then clicking on "Merge upstream/master into
   master" ![](images/github_merge_from_upstream.png) This will update your
   local fork with the changes that may have been submitted to the "upstream"
   DARIAH-CAMPUS, i.e. the original repository owned by DARIAH.
3. Do your work. On how to set up a new learning resource see USING TEMPLATES.
   TODO!
4. Save changes in Atom
5. Go to GitHub Desktop. You can see your recent changes are reflected in the
   Changes Tab: ![](images/github_changes.png)
6. Write a short commit message for the changes you want to submit. You can
   leave the Description field emtpy: ![](images/github_commit_message.png)
7. **Commit your work.** Click on "commit to master". This will save your
   initial work to _your_ fork _locally_.
8. **Push to your fork.** Click on "Push origin". This will save your work to
   _your_ fork _remotely_. ![](images/github_push_origin.png) After you push,
   you can go to your fork on GitHub and click on "Commits". You will see that
   your changes have been committed to your fork on GitHub.com.

You can repeat the above as many times as you want while working on your
learning resource. None of the changes you commit and push as described above
will be submitted to the DARIAH-CAMPUS editors.

## Submitting your contribution

Once you're ready to submit, follow these steps:

1. Open GitHub Desktop and make sure you have no uncommitted changes in the
   Changes tab.
2. **Create a pull request.** Go to Branch > Create Pull Request.
   ![](images/github_desktop_branch_pull_request.png)
   - A new window will open in your Browser. Click on the green button "Create
     pull request" ![](images/github_in_browser_create_pull_request.png)
   - If necessary, change the commit message. You don't have to leave a comment.
     Click on the green button "Create pull request".
     ![](images/github_in_browser_create_pull_request2.png) This will alert the
     editors that you have submitted a contribution for publication.

Commit message:

Update github-workflow.mdx (#91)
Adding addition information about checkbox for edits by maintainers

documentation/github-workflow.mdx, after:

---
title: GitHub Workflow
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
number: 6
---

DARIAH-Campus uses GitHub for its editorial workflow.

Once you start working on your contribution, you should make sure you get into
the habit of regularly syncing your local clone with the remote clone and the
original repository, as well as committing (saving) your work both to your local
clone and your remote server.

## Saving your contribution

This may sound coumplicated, but is actually quite logical. Once you have done
it several times, it will become like second nature to you:

1. **Fetch origin**. Before you start a working session on your computer, make
   sure you "fetch origin": ![](images/github_desktop_fetch_origin.png) This
   will update your local fork with possible changes you've made to your
   "origin", i.e. your fork on GitHub.com. This is important if you're, for
   instance, working on more than one computer.
2. **Merge from upstream**. Also, before you start your working session, you
   should merge from upstream by going to Branch > Merge into current branch >
   Select upstream/master and then clicking on "Merge upstream/master into
   master" ![](images/github_merge_from_upstream.png) This will update your
   local fork with the changes that may have been submitted to the "upstream"
   DARIAH-CAMPUS, i.e. the original repository owned by DARIAH.
3. Do your work. On how to set up a new learning resource see USING TEMPLATES.
   TODO!
4. Save changes in Atom
5. Go to GitHub Desktop. You can see your recent changes are reflected in the
   Changes Tab: ![](images/github_changes.png)
6. Write a short commit message for the changes you want to submit. You can
   leave the Description field emtpy: ![](images/github_commit_message.png)
7. **Commit your work.** Click on "commit to master". This will save your
   initial work to _your_ fork _locally_.
8. **Push to your fork.** Click on "Push origin". This will save your work to
   _your_ fork _remotely_. ![](images/github_push_origin.png) After you push,
   you can go to your fork on GitHub and click on "Commits". You will see that
   your changes have been committed to your fork on GitHub.com.

You can repeat the above as many times as you want while working on your
learning resource. None of the changes you commit and push as described above
will be submitted to the DARIAH-CAMPUS editors.

## Submitting your contribution

Once you're ready to submit, follow these steps:

1. Open GitHub Desktop and make sure you have no uncommitted changes in the
   Changes tab.
2. **Create a pull request.** Go to Branch > Create Pull Request.
   ![](images/github_desktop_branch_pull_request.png)

   - A new window will open in your Browser. Click on the green button "Create
     pull request" ![](images/github_in_browser_create_pull_request.png)

   - If necessary, change the commit message. You don't have to leave a comment.
     **Make sure** that you have checked the checkbox "Allow edits from
     maintainers" that allows the DARIAH-Campus editors to make any necessary
     changes to your pull request. Click on the green button "Create pull
     request". ![](images/github_in_browser_create_pull_request2.png) This will
     alert the editors that you have submitted a contribution for publication.
