documentation/index.mdx, before:

---
title: About
toc: true
---

## What is DARIAH-Campus?

DARIAH-Campus is both a _discovery framework_ and a _hosting platform_ for
DARIAH and DARIAH-affiliated offerings in training and education.

The goal of DARIAH-Campus is to widen access to open, inclusive, high-quality
learning materials that aim to enhance creativity, skills, technology and
knowledge in the digitally-enabled arts and humanities.

DARIAH-Campus started as a pilot project exploring different ways of capturing
and consolidating DARIAH learning resources within the H2020-funded project
DESIR (DARIAH-ERIC Sustainability Refined).

The beta version of DARIAH-Campus was released on November 6th, 2019 at the
DESIR Event in Zagreb.

We're still working on finalising the documentation and have a couple more
features in the pipeline. If you have learning resources that you would like to
share on or create for DARIAH-Campus, feel free to get in touch with us to
discuss next steps.

## Types of resources

Within DARIAH-Campus, users can find different types of learning resources, and
the captured outputs of face-to-face events run by members of the community.

![DARIAH-Campus Types of Resources](images/DC_types_of_resources.png)

### Learning Resources

#### External Resources

One of the functions of DARIAH-Campus is to act as a discovery layer for
existing learning resources, which includes curated links to lessons, courses,
tutorials and other materials in the places where they ‘live’. Currently, we
link to resources that a) have a connection with DARIAH-EU or the national
nodes; b) are contributions from our members; and/or c) have a connection with
the DARIAH Working Groups. We only link to external resources that are openly
available for use and re-use in order to promote and uphold the principles of
open science.

You can see an example an externally hosted resource here:
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/citizen-science-in-the-digital-arts-and-humanities](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/citizen-science-in-the-digital-arts-and-humanities)

<Panel>
  Do you know of a course, lesson, or tutorial that should be included as an
  ‘External Resource’ in our discovery layer? If so, contact us via the DARIAH
  Helpdesk, including the name of the resource, a link, and a brief description.
</Panel>

#### Hosted Learning Resources

DARIAH-Campus hosts and version-controls new online learning resources designed
for use both by online users and in future face-to-facing training events.
Hosted resources include, but are not limited to: training courses, individual
lessons, and/or tutorials. These hosted resources cover topics and concepts
related to (digital) humanities scholarship, and range from very targeted
courses around a particular tool or methodology, such as GIS or TEI, to more
universal issues related to current humanities scholarship such as Open Science,
or Research Data Management.

To view an example of a hosted resource, click here:
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/xpath-for-dictionary-nerds](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/xpath-for-dictionary-nerds)

<Panel>
  We welcome proposals for new content from individuals and groups based at
  institutions in our member and co-operating partner countries. In addition, we
  encourage contributions from independent scholars, cultural heritage
  professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals without a
  formal affiliation. To propose a new hosted course, module, or tutorial for
  DARIAH-Campus, contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk. Specific guidelines for the
  Pathfinders are found here.
</Panel>

#### Pathfinders

There is an overwhelming number of learning resources available online, so much
so that it is sometimes quite difficult for learners to know where to start. In
such cases, DARIAH Pathfinders come to rescue as a specially-produced,
humanist-friendly guides on a variety of topics relating to digitally-enabled
research and teaching. A Pathfinder is a ‘hybrid’ resource which is written for
and hosted by DARIAH-CAMPUS, but which introduces and contextualises a number of
other resources, including those that are hosted externally and those that
extend beyond those created by members of the DARIAH network.

You can see an example of a Pathfinder here:
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/dariah-pathfinder-to-data-management-best-practices-in-the-humanities ](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/dariah-pathfinder-to-data-management-best-practices-in-the-humanities)

<Panel>
  We welcome proposals for new Pathfinders from individuals and groups based at
  institutions in our member and co-operating partner countries and beyond. In
  addition, we encourage contributions from scholars, cultural heritage
  professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals without a
  formal affiliation. If you would like to contribute a DARIAH-Campus
  Pathfinder, please contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk with a brief description
  of your proposed resource. Specific guidelines for the Pathfinders are found
  here.
</Panel>

#### Captured Events

The ephemeral nature of training events such as webinars, lectures series or
training workshops can be tricky to reproduce in an online environment, yet they
are a vitally important part of training and education. DARIAH-Campus offers a
format that captures live training events such as these to enable learners and
trainers to revisit and reuse the outputs of such events. We do this by hosting
documentation from these events, which can include programmes, slides, videos,
speaker biographies and much more. For this, we have designed a special workflow
and a template to compile and structure the content in a learner-friendly way.

For an example of a captured event on DARIAH-Campus see
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/ws2016](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/ws2016)

#### Contact Us

All queries are welcomed, and can be sent to the DARIAH-Campus team via the
[DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), Subject: 'Education and
training'.

Commit message:

Changes to Documentation
New 'Contributing' mdx file

Moved older documentation fies into new folder 'Older Documentation' so it's no longer visble on the website, but we still have it if we want it

documentation/index.mdx, after:

---
title: About
toc: true
---

## What is DARIAH-Campus?

DARIAH-Campus is both a _discovery framework_ and a _hosting platform_ for
DARIAH and DARIAH-affiliated offerings in training and education.

The goal of DARIAH-Campus is to widen access to open, inclusive, high-quality
learning materials that aim to enhance creativity, skills, technology and
knowledge in the digitally-enabled arts and humanities.

DARIAH-Campus started as a pilot project exploring different ways of capturing
and consolidating DARIAH learning resources within the H2020-funded project
DESIR (DARIAH-ERIC Sustainability Refined).

The beta version of DARIAH-Campus was released on November 6th, 2019 at the
DESIR Event in Zagreb.

We're still working on finalising the documentation and have a couple more
features in the pipeline. If you have learning resources that you would like to
share on or create for DARIAH-Campus, feel free to get in touch with us to
discuss next steps.

## Types of resources

Within DARIAH-Campus, users can find different types of learning resources, and
the captured outputs of face-to-face events run by members of the community.

![DARIAH-Campus Types of Resources](images/DC_types_of_resources.png)

### Learning Resources

#### External Resources

One of the functions of DARIAH-Campus is to act as a discovery layer for
existing learning resources, which includes curated links to lessons, courses,
tutorials and other materials in the places where they ‘live’. Currently, we
link to resources that a) have a connection with DARIAH-EU or the national
nodes; b) are contributions from our members; and/or c) have a connection with
the DARIAH Working Groups. We only link to external resources that are openly
available for use and re-use in order to promote and uphold the principles of
open science.

You can see an example an externally hosted resource here:
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/citizen-science-in-the-digital-arts-and-humanities](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/citizen-science-in-the-digital-arts-and-humanities)

#### Hosted Learning Resources

DARIAH-Campus hosts and version-controls new online learning resources designed
for use both by online users and in future face-to-facing training events.
Hosted resources include, but are not limited to: training courses, individual
lessons, and/or tutorials. These hosted resources cover topics and concepts
related to (digital) humanities scholarship, and range from very targeted
courses around a particular tool or methodology, such as GIS or TEI, to more
universal issues related to current humanities scholarship such as Open Science,
or Research Data Management.

To view an example of a hosted resource, click here:
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/xpath-for-dictionary-nerds](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/xpath-for-dictionary-nerds)

#### Pathfinders

There is an overwhelming number of learning resources available online, so much
so that it is sometimes quite difficult for learners to know where to start. In
such cases, DARIAH Pathfinders come to rescue as a specially-produced,
humanist-friendly guides on a variety of topics relating to digitally-enabled
research and teaching. A Pathfinder is a ‘hybrid’ resource which is written for
and hosted by DARIAH-CAMPUS, but which introduces and contextualises a number of
other resources, including those that are hosted externally and those that
extend beyond those created by members of the DARIAH network.

You can see an example of a Pathfinder here:
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/dariah-pathfinder-to-data-management-best-practices-in-the-humanities ](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/dariah-pathfinder-to-data-management-best-practices-in-the-humanities)

### Captured Events

The ephemeral nature of training events such as webinars, lectures series or
training workshops can be tricky to reproduce in an online environment, yet they
are a vitally important part of training and education. DARIAH-Campus offers a
format that captures live training events such as these to enable learners and
trainers to revisit and reuse the outputs of such events. We do this by hosting
documentation from these events, which can include programmes, slides, videos,
speaker biographies and much more. For this, we have designed a special workflow
and a template to compile and structure the content in a learner-friendly way.

For an example of a captured event on DARIAH-Campus see
[https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/ws2016](https://campus.dariah.eu/resource/ws2016)

## Contact Us

<Panel>
  We welcome proposals for new Learning Resources from individuals and groups
  based at institutions in our member and co-operating partner countries and
  beyond. In addition, we encourage contributions from scholars, cultural
  heritage professionals, and other research and/or teaching professionals
  without a formal affiliation. If you would like to contribute a Learning
  Resource to DARIAH-Campus, please contact us via the DARIAH Helpdesk with a
  brief description of your proposed resource.
</Panel>

All queries are welcomed, and can be sent to the DARIAH-Campus team via the
[DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), Subject: 'Education and
training'.

## Acknowledgements

The DARIAH-Campus editorial team would like to acknowledge the work of the
Programming Historian team. We recognise the trailblazing work done by their
volunteer-driven team in advancing Open Educational Resources, and their
carefully-crafted Author Guidelines have served as inspiration for own
guidelines.
