content/en/resources/hosted/archiving-activism-archiving-reproductive-health/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Archiving Activism - Archiving Reproductive Health
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-06-23
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - lanigan-clare
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-management
  - e-heritage
  - digital-archives
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: This video presentation from Clare Lanigan at the Digital Repository of
    Ireland (DRI) on the 'Archiving Reproductive Health' project, and discusses
    archival activism more broadly.  In particular she gives a demonstration of
    the current collections available through the archive, provides details of
    how items were compiled, and also discusses the more pastoral and welfare
    issues for archival staff when dealing with items relating to political or
    social activism.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1004-73ed-b0c0-e8fd8c90d174
---
This video presentation from Clare Lanigan at the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI) on the 'Archiving Reproductive Health' project, and discusses archival activism more broadly.  In particular she gives a demonstration of the current collections available through the archive, provides details of how items were compiled, and also discusses the more pastoral and welfare issues for archival staff when dealing with items relating to political or social activism.

This was filmed as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers Spring Series 2022.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should be able to:

* Understand the methods and challenges in compiling a digital archive from disparate sources
* Recognise and deal with the challenges of archiving materials from groups with opposing points of view
* Identity potential risks to the safety and mental wellbeing of Cultural Heritage practitioners handling items from debates around sensitive social issues, and implement plans to mitigate those risks.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="1h8UWcK-IMw" title="Archiving Activism" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/archiving-activism-archiving-reproductive-health/dri-archiving-activism-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/archiving-activism-archiving-reproductive-health/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Archiving Activism - Archiving Reproductive Health
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-06-23
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - lanigan-clare
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - data-management
  - e-heritage
  - digital-archives
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  content: >-
    This video presentation from Clare Lanigan at the Digital Repository of
    Ireland (DRI) on the 'Archiving Reproductive Health' project, and discusses
    archival activism more broadly.  In particular she gives a demonstration of
    the current collections available through the archive, provides details of
    how items were compiled, and also discusses the more pastoral and welfare
    issues for archival staff when dealing with items relating to political or
    social activism.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-1004-73ed-b0c0-e8fd8c90d174
---
This video presentation from Clare Lanigan at the Digital Repository of Ireland (DRI) on the 'Archiving Reproductive Health' project, and discusses archival activism more broadly.  In particular she gives a demonstration of the current collections available through the archive, provides details of how items were compiled, and also discusses the more pastoral and welfare issues for archival staff when dealing with items relating to political or social activism.

This was filmed as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers Spring Series 2022.

## Learning Outcomes

After viewing this video, you should be able to:

* Understand the methods and challenges in compiling a digital archive from disparate sources
* Recognise and deal with the challenges of archiving materials from groups with opposing points of view
* Identity potential risks to the safety and mental wellbeing of Cultural Heritage practitioners handling items from debates around sensitive social issues, and implement plans to mitigate those risks.

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="1h8UWcK-IMw" title="Archiving Activism" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/archiving-activism-archiving-reproductive-health/dri-archiving-activism-thumbnail.png" />
