content/en/resources/hosted/polifonia-making-sense-of-musical-heritage-on-the-web/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Polifonia - Making sense of musical heritage on the web
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-07-04
version: 1.0.0
authors:
  - daquino-marilena
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - data-management
  - digital-archives
sources:
  - dariah
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Polifonia - Making sense of musical heritage on the web
  content: Polifonia is a H2020 project that aims at harmonising diverse
    information sources in the landscape of musical heritage and scholarship.
    The challenges are many, from data management, to knowledge organisation and
    dissemination barriers. In this talk, an ontology driven strategy to
    organise, share, and interact with the wealth of music data on the web, is
    presented. This include solutions to engage with scholars and lay persons,
    with an emphasis on data visualisation and storytelling.
content-type: webinar-recording
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-20b2-75f3-a92a-e764d0d6372b
---
Polifonia is a H2020 project that aims at harmonising diverse information sources in the landscape of musical heritage and scholarship. The challenges are many, from data management, to knowledge organisation and dissemination barriers. In this talk, an ontology driven strategy to organise, share, and interact with the wealth of music data on the web, will be presented. This include solutions to engage with scholars and lay persons, with an emphasis on data visualisation and storytelling.

This webinar was delivered by Dr. Marilena Daquino (University of Bologna) as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers. You can find more videos from Friday Frontiers on DARIAH-Campus, along with many other free and reusable training resources.

## Learning Outcomes

By viewing this webinar, learners will be able to:

* Understand the objectives of the Polifonia Project
* Recognise the challenges of data management in musical heritage
* Identify and implement solutions to those challenges

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="LNEMZxwGKsg" title="Polifonia: Making sense of musical heritage on the web" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/polifonia-making-sense-of-musical-heritage-on-the-web/polifonia-thumbnail.png" subtitle="Click here to view" />

Commit message:

Update content/en/sources/dariah-friday-frontiers (#1611)
adding a channel to collect all the Friday Frontiers videos together

content/en/resources/hosted/polifonia-making-sense-of-musical-heritage-on-the-web/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Polifonia - Making sense of musical heritage on the web
locale: en
publication-date: 2022-07-04
version: 1.0.1
authors:
  - daquino-marilena
editors: []
contributors: []
tags:
  - e-heritage
  - data-management
  - digital-archives
sources:
  - dariah
  - dariah-friday-frontiers
license: cc-by-4.0
table-of-contents: false
summary:
  title: Polifonia - Making sense of musical heritage on the web
  content: >-
    Polifonia is a H2020 project that aims at harmonising diverse information
    sources in the landscape of musical heritage and scholarship. The challenges
    are many, from data management, to knowledge organisation and dissemination
    barriers. In this talk, an ontology driven strategy to organise, share, and
    interact with the wealth of music data on the web, is presented. This
    include solutions to engage with scholars and lay persons, with an emphasis
    on data visualisation and storytelling.
content-type: webinar-recording
translations: []
dariah-national-consortia: []
doi: https://hdl.handle.net/21.11159/019595c5-20b2-75f3-a92a-e764d0d6372b
---
Polifonia is a H2020 project that aims at harmonising diverse information sources in the landscape of musical heritage and scholarship. The challenges are many, from data management, to knowledge organisation and dissemination barriers. In this talk, an ontology driven strategy to organise, share, and interact with the wealth of music data on the web, will be presented. This include solutions to engage with scholars and lay persons, with an emphasis on data visualisation and storytelling.

This webinar was delivered by Dr. Marilena Daquino (University of Bologna) as part of the DARIAH Friday Frontiers. You can find more videos from Friday Frontiers on DARIAH-Campus, along with many other free and reusable training resources.

## Learning Outcomes

By viewing this webinar, learners will be able to:

* Understand the objectives of the Polifonia Project
* Recognise the challenges of data management in musical heritage
* Identify and implement solutions to those challenges

<VideoCard provider="youtube" id="LNEMZxwGKsg" title="Polifonia: Making sense of musical heritage on the web" subtitle="Click here to view" src="/assets/content/assets/en/resources/hosted/polifonia-making-sense-of-musical-heritage-on-the-web/polifonia-thumbnail.png" />
